Today, the Federal Open Market Committee
decided to lower our policy interest
rate by a quarter percentage point.
>> Nowhere near as bad as the market
feared,
>> but they really want to tell us that the
base case is a hold for January.
>> The first takeaway is the pause is in.
>> I think you could see some more rate
cuts in the back part of next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks failing to keep
momentum from yesterday's Fed rate cut
with futures lower as traders revive
artificial intelligence related fears.
Broadcom results on deck after Oracle's
report spooked investors with the
company raising its spending plans
beyond what was expected. And now
jobless claims very much in focus with
Fed Chair Jay Powell sounding a cautious
note about the US labor market. We get
those initial jobless claims at 8:30
a.m. Eastern. I am so pleased to say
that David Gora is going to be alongside
me for the next 3 hours. David, what a
wild 24 hours it's been with whipsawing
price action and sentiment.
>> Absolutely. I mean, on the heels of that
Fed meeting, we saw markets respond so
positively. Then we had those oracle
numbers went the opposite direction. Um
I guess kind of encapsulates the the ups
and downs that we've seen over the
course of this year.
>> The and the push pull right now of is it
the Fed or is it AI, right? Is it a
question of monetary easing or is it a
question of how much some of the hopes
and dreams of technological prowess can
really fulfill the GDP numbers and all
of the optimism that we that we've seen
in the US economy
>> and that debate really manifested in
what we heard from the Fed chairman
yesterday as he talked about those
economic projections which were I think
much rosier than a lot of people
expected uh indicating perhaps a belief
on the part of these policy makers that
that AI renaissance AI AI's future is
going to have a huge effect here in the
US economy going forward in 2026
>> and it's clear that this is a Fed very
concerned also So expecting the
productivity gains from AI that could
potentially fuel this kind of goldilock
scenario that's really supporting
markets. What we are seeing in markets
right now is a little bit of a dip in
futures ahead of the open after
yesterday seeing the best post Fed
performance on the S&P going back to
March. Today we're taking that back down
610 of a percent on S&P futures. NASDAQ
down even more in pre-market trading.
Dollar softening really picking steam.
We've crossed through that 117 level on
the Euro dollar cross and yields had
been up to 420 on the 10-year. Now they
are down to below 414. Just to give you
a sense of how much we've retraced uh
what that bond selloff had looked like.
Coming up this hour, we've got Dan
Skellyy of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management with stocks coming off their
best Fed day since March, as we were
just saying. Stefan Sloinsky of BMP
Paraba as Oracle shares fall by double
digits and Claudia S of New Century
Adviserss and why Fed share Powell may
have cut rates for the last time. We
begin this hour with stocks lower as AI
spending concerns weigh on markets. Dan
Skellyy of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management writing, "We are more bullish
on corporate earnings and margin
expansion due to capex, AI, and
deregulation versus Fed cuts. In fact,
we probably lean more hawkish than the
market." Dan joins us now. You're going
to be joining us for the hour. Thank you
so much for being with us.
>> Great to see you, Lisa.
>> So, Dan, you're taking the exact
opposite approach right now from the
market, that you actually think that AI
is the promise and Fed rate cuts are
kind of the spoof. So can you explain
why you are completely counter to what
the market is kind of expressing right
now?
>> Sure. And look, we had a bit of a draw
down in the last month or so. We had a
5% draw down and it was noisy. It was
around a lot of positioning,
rebalancing, technicalities. And look,
the signal continues to be really
strong. Earning strength is broadening
out across other sectors. What are we
seeing today with the AI narrative?
We're questioning the funding of AI.
We're questioning the timing of a AI.
What we're not questioning is the
validity of AI. We still don't know
truly what the productivity gains are
going to look like. And frankly, that
story and that uncertainty is going to
continue with us for some time to come.
And frankly, I think that's the opposite
of what a bubble looks like. If everyone
was euphoric about AI, I'd be more
concerned.
>> We'll get into bubble talk in just a
second. Let's start with that. It is
inevitable. It's sort of this question
of what is a bubble? Are there different
kinds of bubbles? How big is the bubble?
The different bubbles of time that are
multi. I mean, really, the amount of
bubble talk that I've seen over the past
24 hours has knocked your socks off. I'm
just wondering from your perspective
from the Fed side, sure, how much the
Fed is looking at AI productivity gains
as a reason to cut rates, right? Is the
Fed leveraged to AI just as much as the
rest of the market?
>> Well, I think the labor market weakening
is not really coming from economic
weakening. It's coming from a shift in
intentional immigration policy. It may
be yes be coming from the entrylevel
automation of some work because of AI,
which is positive for earnings to your
point. So I think the Fed is basically
acknowledging for the first time more
vocally per Powell's comments that
productivity is coming and so they want
to be more concerned if the labor market
takes a bigger dip. Uh but we think
frankly when you look out next year
there's a positive story but the story
is going to look differently in terms of
leadership that it has in recent years.
Let me marry this with the dual mandate
and talk a bit about inflation. So marry
AI with with the inflation narrative and
um you know you look at what happened
with Oracle. we see this kind of moving
in a direction now where uh a lot of
these bets are heavily levered. They're
taking on a lot of debt to build these
data centers. What does that tell you
about the calculus the Fed is going
through right now thinking about how
inflationary they might be going
forward? Well, I think one of the most
interesting takeaways from yesterday,
David, is there is less and less
consensus within the Fed. I think
looking out at the dot plot uh over the
last couple of months, everyone had
predicted uh cuts and now you're looking
at three potential hikes from from the
dot plot. So, you know, when we think
about the Fed's calculus, they're going
to be continuing to focus on all the
things they look at. But at the end of
the day, and back to Lisa's earlier
point, we would just highlight again,
there's a paradigm shift going on in the
economy where more and more spending and
more and more control or attribution of
the economy is coming from rate
inelastic sources, be it services and
high-end consumers and there's a lot of
kind of intersection there and AI
spending uh which is coming mostly from
companies who can spend whatever they
want. uh and so the rate picture we
think doesn't figure as much in maybe to
the fundamental picture as much.
>> Let's talk a bit about uncertainty. So
the the Fed chair used the usual boiler
plate as he presented these dotplot
forecasts. You know they don't represent
the opinion of the committee. They could
change etc etc. Um there is so much
uncertainty just on a a policy variant.
There's so much uncertainty about
personnel as well.
>> Sure.
>> Is there when you look at those dots do
you have less credence in them than you
would otherwise or what do they tell us?
They tell us even less than usual.
>> I think they tell us less than usual. I
think that the changing nature of the
debate within the Fed itself is telling
us there's going to be uncertainty. Um,
and I think look, you mentioned the
other comment in terms of other policy
issues, Fed independence, the dollar has
been in a pretty stable place for the
last four or five months after having a
really weak first half. So, should Fed
independence come back into the four
early next year, we think the dollar
could could resume its uh decline that
it had earlier this year. Just to build
on what David was talking about though,
the whole idea of quiet descents really
took off over the past 24 hours. The
idea that in that dot plot, there were a
number of members I believe uh four uh
that came out and or six actually that
came out and said that they think that
rates should have stayed where they were
before the rate cut indicating that
should they have been on the voting
committee they would have voted not to
necessarily cut rates. Does that
indicate that Powell is losing some
clout and whoever is going to be the
head of the next Fed isn't going to have
the same kind of thumb on the scale as
Jay Powell had uh as leader and frankly
as all Fed chairs have had going back to
say Paul Vulkar.
>> Yeah, he may. It's a really interesting
point. I hadn't thought of it. He may be
and everyone know may know that of
course his time is coming to a
conclusion and so so there may be some
uh some uh rising descent there but look
coming back to our earlier thread I
think if productivity and particularly
in a once in a generation tech cycle is
driving uh a new narrative and frankly
the high-end consumer and services story
is more disconnected from the rate cycle
than we had ever seen before it may not
matter as much and that's what we're
really trying to re uh uh reiterate to
our clients Does that indicate the big
tech has to be the leadership going
forward and not necessarily this
broadening out this rotation
particularly into small caps that we saw
took off yesterday after the Fed
meeting?
>> Yeah, you know, my colleague Mike Wilson
just upgraded small caps and in the one
month mark tomarket he's had a really
good call so far and look we would say
that momentum could continue into the
first half of this year but I'm just
again not as inclined to think for the
balance of the year that that trend
continues. What we really see, Lisa, is
the leadership shift going from an
equity perspective from mag 7 the last
two years to Fortune 100. And it's not
necessarily going to be mid or small
cap. It's going to be quality large
companies who are adopting AI and now
have more earnings upside and more
earnings productivity. And keep in mind
that was not the narrative the last
couple years, but it is shifting this
year. I think people would be maybe uh
surprised to note that Mag 7 hasn't been
the monolith that it had been the last
couple years. What gives you confidence,
you and Mike, confidence in the kind of
catalytic nature of this moment? Because
I think the dialogue over the course of
2025 has been look, Mag 7's too
consolidated, markets too consolidated,
it has to broaden out and low, we really
haven't seen that over the course of of
this year. Why now? What gives you that
that confidence? So the broadening is
still happening gradually. So I think
money center banks as a case in point
has been a strong leadership group this
year. Finally, healthcare is catching up
and there's some big market cap
contribution there. visa v big pharma
which is starting to work uh medical
devices and other parts of the other
parts of the um kind of growth health
care sphere but we would just say again
I think people mistakenly make this case
that it's mag 7 to 493 and we argue the
493 is not necessarily the highest
quality cohort. So given all these
uncertainties we've talked about already
this morning in terms of Fed policy
economy inflation we still want to lean
towards quality but we're seeing that
more in the Fortune 100. Um, let me ask
you lastly as we stick with the Fed
here, sort of your sense of the
importance it's going to play here going
into 2026. Lisa bring up you bring up as
well that that Jay Powell's tenure is
coming to an end here at least as as
chairman. We'll see what happens when
with his governor position. Um, does it
take a less outsized role here in 2026?
>> I think the Fed has shifted so much to
being on the for the front foot in terms
of communication that I don't see
anything really changing to that. um in
terms of reactions from the market. Uh
and keep again I think keep in mind
again that we've seen over the last
seven or eight months a 3% draw down
followed by a 5% draw down. What it
indicates is that I think investors are
moving towards um you know a more benign
view of the world and there's so much
cash and liquidity still on the
sidelines that all these short-term
corrections will be bought up
>> on the front foot including Anna Pollson
who's speaking later this morning as
well as Austin Goulby. Watch that space
and Beth Hammock all today. So on the
front foot in terms of communication,
plenty of Fed speak still coming down
the pike later today to re uh restart
after that quiet period. Dan Skellyy,
we're not letting you go. Stick with us
of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management as
we parse through the stories. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Yahand. Good
morning, Lisa. President Trump confirmed
that US forces intercepted and seized a
sanctioned oil tanker off the coast of
Venezuela, marking a serious escalation
of tensions between the two countries.
The Trump administration has ramped up
pressure on Venezuelan President Nicolas
Maduro, accusing him of presiding over a
drug trafficking operation. Meanwhile,
President Trump continuing to criticize
Fed Chair J. Powell after yesterday's
rate decision. The president saying the
25 basis point cut could have at least
been doubled. The president's comments
coming as he interviews candidates to
replace Powell. Trump saying he is
looking for somebody that will be honest
with interest rates and that his view is
that the rates should be much lower.
And Oracle shares are dropping more than
nearly 11% in the pre-market. The
software maker reporting a jump in
spending on AI data centers and other
equipment. investors are concerned those
investments are taking longer to
translate into cloud revenue as cloud
sales in the fiscal second quarter fell
just short of analyst estimates. That's
our brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara David, doesn't
it feel like at this point Oracle is
just a proxy for OpenAI and Sam Alman
and essentially he's just pulling the
strings and if he's not doing great then
Oracle is not going to do great either.
eager to talk about this more over the
course of these next few hours. But yes,
it does feel like it is a proxy in that
way and sort of highlights the kind of
circular story that we've been talking
about during the recent months.
>> Ongoing circular financing. The other
circular discussion is geopolitically
and what is the next hot spot? Up next,
escalations with Venezuela.
>> We've just uh seized
a tanker on the coast of Venezuela.
Large tanker, very large,
largest one ever seized, actually.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us next
from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Taking the froth a little bit off of
some of yesterday's Fed induced rally.
It was a pop getting us close to 0.1%
within of the all-time high on the S&P
500. Now we're taking some heat out of
that. Why? Because of Oracle. Why did
you do that? Oracle down a half a
percent on S&P futures. The NASDAQ
really being dragged down by that move
down 7/10en of a percent. The Russell
2000 doing better. This is expected
because when you take a look at twos,
tens, and 30s, you could see why futures
are little changed on that small cap
index. You could see yields
significantly lower than where we began
yesterday with particularly on the front
end of the yield curve. We saw almost
eight basis points of a decline
yesterday alone. We build on that 3.54%
on the 2-year. A more muted kind of gain
on the longer end. And this really goes
to that yield curve steepening that
we've seen with the 30-year still in and
around 4.8%.
Meanwhile, a real focus on geopolitics
with discussions about a possible
conflict brewing in the Americas under
surveillance this morning. Escalations
with Venezuela.
>> We've just uh seized
a tanker on the coast of Venezuela.
Large tanker, very large,
largest one ever seized, actually.
And uh other things are happening. It
was seized for a very good reason. We
keep it, I guess. I assume we're going
to keep the oil. Here's
the latest. US forces seizing a
sanctioned oil tanker off the coast of
Venezuela, further escalating tensions
between the two countries as the US
ramps up military presence in the
Caribbean. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now. Tyler, this does seem like
a pretty substantial escalation. What do
we know about the circumstances behind
this seizure and what could potentially
follow?
>> Yeah, hey Lisa. Good morning. You're
exactly right. This is a significant
escalation of tensions between the two
countries as the US's pressure campaign
has now taken aim directly at the heart
of Venezuela's oilbased economy. Now,
our reporting indicates that this tanker
has for years been known to be
considered part of what's called the
dark fleet that supports Venezuelan and
also Iranian oil exports and was well
known to authorities. This exact tanker
had the capacity to transport nearly 2
million barrels of oil. And other
shippers may now be reluctant to load
cargo, which means that this really
could have an impact on Venezuela's oil
export market. Just for some context
here, data shows us that Venezuela
exported on average 750,000
barrels of oils per day last year with
more than half going to China. As
analysts point out that US restrictions
on US companies operating in the country
has actually been a boon to the Chinese
market which has been buying these
barrels at a discount. Now as you
mentioned this is part of this broader
backdrop that the US has had its largest
military buildup in the Caribbean in
decades as they go after alleged drug
traffickers uh conducting at this point
nearly 20 strikes in the Caribbean. But
Lisa, I'll point out that our analysts
at Bloomberg Economics say that while
the administration has really justified
its actions as going after drug
traffickers, this really serves that
broader purpose to turn the screws on
Nicholas Maduro in Venezuela. President
Trump earlier this week in an interview
with Politico did say that Maduro's days
are numbered in his words, though
declined to say how far he would go to
get him out of power. But we do know as
of now the option of land strikes inside
the country still remain on the table.
Tyler Kendall of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for that. And David, I'm looking
right now. Oil prices down, right? I
mean, you see all of this and potential
disruptions to oil supply, concerns
about geopolitics. The move is anything
uh but concerned when you take a look at
what's going on in markets.
>> Yeah, fascinating to think about this in
light of the conversation you with Mike
Worth of Chevron earlier this week. That
company still doing business in
Venezuela and just the ambiguity
surrounding all of this. So, Tyler
rightly bringing up at the end there,
the prospect of there being land strike
still looms large as we've seen kind of
all of this military might brought to
this part of of the world. everyone
wondering what's going to happen next.
Fascinating to see. Of course, this is
part of the shadow fleet that's been so
front and center in the context of the
Ukraine war. And then we've got the the
leader of the opposition group in
Venezuela, Ria Kurim Machado, making her
way to Oslo under cover of darkness. Not
to accept the award, but to be there for
that Nobel Peace Prize this week,
raising a lot of questions about what
happens with the opposition going
forward here. What role are they going
to play? What's it going to be like? How
is she going to get back to Venezuela on
the heels of that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, and Dan, this just
goes to the idea that the glut of
production overwhelms any kind of
geopolitical disruption when it comes to
markets, even if the headlines seem
pretty uh significant
>> and we'll see if that continues, right?
OPEC plus had just signaled within the
last couple weeks that they actually
might now be at a place of equilibrium
and they may not be contributing uh as
much supply. So, I think when you look
at zooming out the political landscape,
we're obviously on the path fortunately
to deescalation in the Middle East. Uh
let's also go back to Ukraine, however,
does not seem like it's going the same
direction. So we we go back to this idea
around inflation has been relatively
muted. Uh but we'll see if commodities
continue to behave that way next year.
>> Yeah. And this sort of geopolitical
overlay. On one hand, the oil story is
one side of this supply demand dynamic.
On the other side, there is the ongoing
question between the US and China. And
when it comes to artificial
intelligence, Nvidia yesterday refuting
reports that its top-of-the-line
Blackwell chips were smuggled into
China. This coming just days after
President Trump gave the green light for
the company to sell its less advanced
H200 chips in the country. Anna Ashton
of Ashen Analytics joins us now. Anna,
great to have your insights on this.
What did you make of the back and forth,
the accusations about Deep Seek, the
response that they couldn't have
possibly used enough chips under the
cover to actually be that successful?
Where is the reality here?
I mean, you know, I think that the
reality is that we just don't know where
China is in its advancements, but we do
know that the restrictions that have
been in place, I mean, what Jensen Huang
has argued, um, you know, there's a lot
of there's a lot of weight that should
be given to that, that the restrictions
in place have only sped China's efforts
to catch up with the United States in
terms of um, advanced chip technology.
And that technology is definitely
getting better.
>> There's a funny thing at play here,
Anna, and that is there is a clear need
on China's part to have these types of
chips. Uh, and yet what's ambiguous or
we don't know is what the demand is. And
I go back to the last time Nvidia
reported earnings. We heard from Jensen
Hang. He said they're kind of using as
their base case here that China is not
buying any of this. So we have this
development over the course of the last
week. The US is going to allow the
export of these chips. Yet the demand
part of this still is is unknown. And I
wonder sort of what you make of that and
sort of how you're seeing the interest
on China's part in these chips going
forward.
Well, what's interesting is that when
the you when Trump announced that um the
previous deal that never actually came
to fruition um that would have allowed
more chips from Nvidia to go to to China
um not H200 chips but um that deal China
responded to by warning companies not to
buy Nvidia's chips um talking about
potential back doors etc. So there's
clearly pressure from the Chinese
government on major Chinese tech
companies not to rely on American chips
and and that is because the Chinese
government wants to incentivize the
companies to develop their own
technology. At the same time you know
the the recent smuggling accusations uh
operation gatekeeper those show that you
know the demand for advanced chips is
certainly still there. Um everything
that we understand is that you know the
the capabilities of something like
DeepSeek um are are of course limited by
lack of access to the most advanced
chips and it requires far more chips um
uh less advanced chips to achieve what
it has achieved. So it's it's hard to
imagine that uh Deepseek actually did
that um using less power or less in the
way of GPUs than um is typically used
here in the United States. But at the
same time, power is cheap in China. So
if China has to use more power in its
efforts to um fuel the advancement of
its tech companies, then it will.
>> Anna, how do you think about the
national security side of this story? So
there is as a backdrop a lot of happy
talk from this administration from the
company uh as well about its ability
kind of curtail China's uh chances of or
ability to kind of use these chips to uh
erode US national security. You talk to
anybody from the Biden administration
though and they're they're raising a
flag about how this is a huge misstep on
the part of this administration. You
can't be kind of leveraging national
security in this way. How do you think
about it I guess from a practical
perspective? Is it possible to insulate
these chips and US national security
from their adoption in the US uh in
China rather? Um walk us through the way
you're thinking of that framing.
>> I mean I think that you know this is a a
case of people who think that the best
offense is a good defense versus people
who think that the best offense is a
good offense. Um certainly a good
defense is helpful, but at the end of
the day, it's going to be hard to limit
China completely from accessing um the
United States most advanced chips. For
one thing, they're made on China's side
of the world. Um and and so the best
offense really is a good offense. that
doesn't mean that we shouldn't have u
measures in place that prevent China
from uh using these chips in ways that
would be undermining our national
security. Uh it's just that those
measures are only going to be so
effective. So really what we should be
focusing on is ensuring that our own
companies are as competitive as
possible. Um, one argument there is that
sales to China help our companies be as
competitive as possible because the
revenue that is generated from a market
that big um allows for more R&D and
development. Uh, but the counterargument
to that is that you know China is
already limiting those sales and
ultimately as China does catch up in
terms of advancing its own technology
those sales are going to drop off. So
yeah, uh
>> and Ashton of Ashton Analytics, thank
you so much for those insights. Uh I'm
just wondering, Dan, from your
perspective, how much are you looking at
the sort of geopolitics polit
geopolitics of the US versus China in
the chip sector in an investment thesis
way?
>> Yeah, it's a massive underlying theme
for us. We've talked about this from
Morgan Stanley's research uh lens too in
terms of this multipolar shift and this
has been going on in terms of trade and
tariffs and reshoring as well. I guess
just thinking about Anna's comments
zooming out to follow on to something
David said ultimately longer term who's
going to use which partner if the US and
China have two separate models is China
ever going to be relied upon in terms of
the security uh questions around their
their technology?
>> Well, we're going to pick up that
conversation exactly coming up next with
Stephan Sloinsky of BMP Paraba with
Oracle concerns front and center plus
Yhierra Anand with your morning movers.
This is Bloomberg.
Yesterday, markets got exactly what they
wanted from the Federal Reserve. Not
only did you get a 25 basis point rate
cut, you also got indications that this
Fed was not nearly as hawkish as some
people had feared. There was a huge pop
in equities. You saw it close out. S&P
close to the all-time highs. than Oracle
reported and everything went the other
direction. S&P futures lower by about a
half a percent. You're seeing dollar
weakness continue 117 on the Euro dollar
cross and yields significantly lower
particularly on the front end. Even on
the long end though 10-year yields lower
by about a basis point 4.13%
3 hours away from the cash open. Here
are your morning movers with the highra
on antihyra. Hi Lisa. Oracle's
disappointing results are rippling
through the AI trade this morning.
Oracle said that it plans to spend an
extra $15 billion in capex in the fiscal
year uh to fund its AI projects with the
likes of OpenAI and others, but the
returns just aren't showing up fast
enough for investors. And that is why we
are seeing other big AI spenders like
Nvidia and Meta getting hit this
morning. Nvidia down nearly 2% now in
the pre-market. Meanwhile, we move on to
Gemini. This is the company uh run by
the Wingle Boss Twins. Shares are
surging 16% in the pre-market after
regulators cleared the firm to launch a
derivatives exchange. A move that would
allow the company to enter the red hot
prediction market which as we know is
currently dominated by Kshi and Poly
market. And we end on PDD shares are
falling 2.2% in the in the pre-market.
This is the company behind Teimu and
they are fall shares are falling on our
reporting that fist fights broke out
last week between Chinese regulators and
employees at its Shanghai factory. While
we don't know why the altercations
started, we do know that the audit was
tied to alleged fraudulent activity
which is stoking fears of increased
government oversight over PDD over PDD
which has made major gains here in the
US with its team app. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. still stuck on the
Gemini space station that I assumed was
them taking off, but instead is
prediction markets.
>> Okay, there we go. Space station is not
exactly the international space station
on our radar this morning. Not that.
Oracle shares sinking after the company
reported disappointing cloud sales and a
massive jump in spending for AI data
centers. Investors worrying the high
cost of its building out of its
infrastructure is taking too long to
turn profit. Those shares lower about
11% in pre-market trading. Dan, do you
think some of these concerns over the
debtfueled aspect of the AI buildout are
overblown or do you think that it truly
is a reason to stay away from certain
pockets of the credit market?
>> I think it's more of the latter and I
think it's entirely healthy, right? When
we think about the last two years, most
of the cloud names were funding AI spend
from cash flow. So, the market is we
think appropriate and correct to start
questioning some of the extension of
leverage. That having been said, the
most important catalyst is still yet to
come, which is back to what we were
discussing earlier. When does the
Fortune 100 start to actually announce
earnings monetization? And that hasn't
really happened yet. So, it's really
hard to question the entire cycle until
you have that particular dynamic,
>> which is a reason why I think a lot of
people are looking to Broadcom and are
looking at in particular open AI to see
whether that part of the cycle really is
the sort of uh weak hand, right? I mean,
this is sort of the question with
circular financing. Are there weak hands
embedded there that could potentially
cause systemic risk?
>> Yeah, circular financing now becoming
kind of elliptical, I think, Dan, as I
think about sort of the way in which
this is is playing out. And I'm curious
as you think about this and you look at
the investor agitation that we've seen
over the last not 24 hours, but a little
less than that. Um, what your sense of
timing is. So, there's clearly a desire
here to see some proof in in the
pudding. Your sense of what patience you
and other investors have to to see
something manifest when it comes to
these investments. It is a fantastic
question, David, and I wrote about this
in my last quarterly investor letter. Is
there a wy coyote moment where the
market just gives up patience and the
bottom just falls from under? And look,
we would say uh based on our
observations, based on earnings
transcripts, but also based on a lot of
survey work, right? Morgan Stanley does
a quarterly CIO, chief information
officer survey. And when you look at
that trend over the last year or so,
projects were being put in place a year
ago. And when we listen to companies
today, they're saying we're getting
closer to actually seeing productivity
gains. The most likely phase of the
sequence is actually seeing the earnings
announcements. So to give you a, you
know, a more specific answer, we think
it's in the next 9 to 12 months. Okay.
>> Wow. Which is the reason why I think
people are looking for that rotations
trade. Also looking for the rotation
trade based on the Fed, Fed chair Jerome
Powell warning that the official US jobs
numbers could be overstated potentially
by 60,000 jobs monthly. Powell
indicating that the US economy could
actually be losing jobs. A concern that
played a part in the Fed's interest rate
cut. More on that coming up a little
later this hour. The battle for Warner
Brothers Discovery, meanwhile, is
ongoing, drawing some political fire
with President Donald Trump weighing in.
>> I think any deal should it should be
guaranteed and certain that CNN is part
of it or sold separately. But I don't
think the people that are running that
company right now and running CNN, which
is a very dishonest
uh group of people, I don't think that
should be allowed to continue.
>> Those comments creating more questions
than answers right now about the deal
and its potential realization right now
in markets. Let's turn back to Oracle.
It really is dominating markets this
morning. Surging capex alongside
disappointing sales have been sending
shares tumbling down 11 12% in
pre-market trading. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now.
Mandep, how bad were these results? I
mean, was this really an issue of
weakness or just an issue of concerns
getting uh fed by some of these spending
plans?
>> I mean, it's more the latter. And uh
look uh what's changed in the last 90
days is uh you know the focus on capex
efficiency that was really brought by
Google and Google has shown not only uh
have they built infrastructure for these
AI models but they've trained their own
models using their own chips all with
you know the $90 billion in capex
they're spending this year and another
100 plus billion next year and that's
the lens that investors are using to
measure the capex efficiency of other
hyperscalers and Oracle is just a
provider of AI data center
infrastructure. It hasn't shown you know
other products that are benefiting from
AI spend and that's where you know the
question remains to be asked is if it's
a lower margin business should investors
be uh you know sponsoring Oracle to
raise another $200 billion even though
their backlog is close to $500 billion.
So the question is around the margins
and the quality of the revenue that
Oracle will be generating through this
bet.
>> Mandy Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence,
thank you so much. I look forward to
catching up with you after Broadcom
reports earnings. Stefan Sloinsky of BNP
Paraba writing, "While Oracle did all
that was asked, the market was not
buying it." Spooked by another $15
billion lift to this year's capex.
Stefan has an outperform rating on the
stock and a price target of $290. Stefan
joins us now for more. Stefan, how much
do you see this as a buying opportunity
given the fact that people seem to be
really committed to this fear that uh
Oracle is overspending and overly
committed to open AI?
>> Uh yes, good morning Lisa. Thanks for
having me. And um as I said this
morning, uh Oracle really gave us
everything that we wanted or investors
were wanting. Uh Oracle cloud
infrastructure uh grew 68% which was in
line with expectations. There were lots
of concerns that there had been delays
at their Abene, Texas data center. That
turns out not to be the case and and
they are on track for the full year.
There were lots of concerns on the
financing side and and Oracle came out
and said, "We're committed to investment
grade credit rating." So, that's a
relief. And they also came out and said
that the uh fundraising expectations
that the market has for the next few
years are are too high um and that they
won't require as much capital as is
needed. So they kind of addressed all of
those topics head-on with new management
not ducking any of the tough questions.
Um but uh the market is still looking at
that o a open AI overhang. Um and uh
despite diversifying with deals with
meta and with Nvidia, they still have a
lot of exposure to open AI. So um I
think the market needs to get
comfortable that a um open AI will be
viable and continue to be competitive.
um b uh that uh there's a sustainability
of this AI investment and infrastructure
need beyond open AI and that C uh Oracle
can sustain some sort of technical
advantage which the market's not
convinced about in order to maintain its
margins in this business.
>> You mentioned the the leadership change.
This is a post saffricats oracle. Uh and
I wonder how you're thinking about
leadership at this company. the the
continuity from her to this team of two.
Um what questions you might have about
them and the direction of this company.
Uh h how sort of continuous is it?
>> Yeah. Hi David. I think that's a great
question because when you look at
Microsoft Microsoft the stock is
struggling right now and people are even
questioning Satcha and Amy the CEO and
CFO who've been there a long time.
they've deployed capital very
successfully, very in a disciplined
manner and and and even there people are
questioning the outlook for their spend.
Um I think with Oracle it is a new
management team. Now the good thing is
all of the management team have been
with the company a long time. They're
they're known to the market. They're
very operationally experienced. Um and I
think like I said they did very well on
the conference call last night. Um but
they are unproven and so that just adds
another variable here to the outlook for
Oracle. But um to come back to Lisa's
question, this is a company that's now
trading on nine times earnings on that
2030 uh guidance for 21 bucks of EPS. Uh
and that is all on already signed and
committed business. So uh we're starting
to see a lot of those fears around open
AI, around AI, around monetization,
around execution being reflected in the
share price here.
>> I'm curious how you think of the the the
proxy- like nature of of this company.
Yes. for for open AI, I suppose, but for
AI more more broadly. I guess it's a
we'll see if it manifests itself with
Broadcom a little later today. Um, but
but what is this company's performance
telling us about the prospects of AI
more broadly?
>> Well, we continue to see a ramping of
their backlog. So, their RPO uh was over
530 billion adding another 60 or 70
billion quarter over quarter. Um, I
mentioned the revenues for OCI, you
know, hitting the 68% growth rates. Um,
so that demand keeps coming in, but the
the companies are almost getting
penalized for that now, which is more
capex leads to a revenue raise for next
year, but the market's looking at it
more on the risk side. Obviously, a
lot's been talked about with the Oracle
CDS and the credit side of things. Um,
this is the largest non-financial US
dollar debt issuer issuer. Um, they've
got about 90 billion of of debt
outstanding. uh there were concerns they
would slip down into high yield. If that
were the case, uh Oracle's debt load is
bigger than 13 of the 18 high yield
sectors. So that's the importance that
we're seeing here. It's also very
different than the other hyperscalers
that are all AAA or double A rated. You
know, with Oracle, you're you're triple
B rated. So that's another reason why
people have been looking at this as a
proxy. Uh and obviously out of the 530
billion of backlog, probably over 300
billion of that is just open AI alone.
My question is thinking about this stock
in a much longer historical context. If
you look at their traditional software
business, it was flat to down in the
quarter and clearly they're making a
pivot in terms of their corporate
strategy. So almost following on David's
comment in terms of management just when
you think about your industry experience
and and history, are there precedent
examples of companies who've made this
big a shift in the past before and been
successful?
I think if you look at Microsoft uh you
know obviously adding cloud to its
business over a decade ago with
Microsoft Azure obviously leveraging its
its expertise and and technology
capabilities um and positioning with the
enterprise uh into cloud and moving into
more of an infrastructure business. Of
course there were concerns then about
the margin impact but obviously that's
been very successful for them. uh what
Oracle is also trying to do and again
the market's not convinced of it yet is
that it will be a unique AI provider in
the sense it's the only company that has
the infrastructure um it has the
software infrastructure as well in terms
of the database and it also provides
applications and so what Oracle is also
trying to tell the market is most
corporate data still sits within the
Oracle database and now with Oracle
cloud infrastructure it's data center
and infrastructure business, you can put
that on top of that data in your Oracle
databases, use whatever model you want
and build new AI AI applications on top.
So, they're saying this is not just
going to be a sort of a renting a GPU
cluster business. This will be more of a
software business over time, leveraging
all of those assets that they have. But
for now, the market's focused on the
spending as we probably have negative
free cash flows here at least for the
next three years. Stefan Sloinsky of BMP
Paraba, thank you so much for those
insights. And Dan, I would turn the
question back to you. If there is this
expectation that it could be uh the next
Microsoft or Amazon in terms of what we
saw in the past and some of the
potential, is it better to be invested
in the debt or the equity, right? Which
is the better proposition when they're
depending on the debt markets to really
build themselves out?
>> Yeah, it's it's a really fabulous
question and I think he referenced nine
times 2030. So if you really believe
that $21 outyear number, you know, the
equity looks pretty attractive. Having
said that, I think Microsoft shift is
the right analog clearly. And I think
the question or the reality is most
investors probably won't put them in the
same camp as Microsoft. But to his
point, I think if you can get some
leverage in terms of the data
applications with their existing
customers, that's a much higher margin
business. And so to me, that seems like
the the upside catalyst in the future.
What's interesting when we're speaking
with Howard Marks of Oak Tree later in
the show and one thing he wrote about in
his recent memo is that there are
different kinds of bubbles to talk about
bubbles. There are that we've never we
never left. Come on, we never left.
There are non-productive bubbles like
what we saw in subprime mortgages and
then there are truly productive bubbles
necessary to finance the buildout of key
technological infrastructure and key
technological advancement. Those bubbles
are more positive and can actually be
invested in a more significant way. I
mean, how much do you get the sense
people are parsing through this and
saying, "Okay, it could be fraudy, but
at a certain point, we're okay with that
because the promise is significant."
>> Um, you were doing a lot of anatomy of
bubbles at the top of the show. So, let
me pick up on that. You mentioned fraud.
I mean, I think about the way these
bubbles are connected, and I think
that's what gives me pause as I think
about this. So, yes, you could have kind
of a bubble bubble circumstances, which
some pop and others don't, but the fact
that they're all touching one another
strikes me as a problem here
potentially.
>> No, no doubt. And so, I think that's why
we've been saying to stay diversified
and keep some hedges on in your asset
allocation. So agreed with you there,
David. I think the other thing I would
just say, however, is the the policy uh
tailwinds are still out there and we've
focused almost exclusively on monetary
topics this morning. Let's not forget
fiscal policy should be a tailwind going
into next year. Uh perhaps not
coincidentally ahead of a midterm cycle.
So who knows what tariff revenue is left
after the Supreme Court uh makes its
decision. But we've also been hearing
about tariff dividends as another
potential back stop.
>> Yeah. tariff deficit. That's sort of
what we're going to be talking about
coming up in just a little bit. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Yahara on it.
Jihara. Hi, Lisa. Speaking of tariffs,
me Mexico has approved new tariffs on a
wide range of Asian imports, a move that
further aligns the country with US
efforts to tighten trade barriers
against China. The levies will go into
effect next year. And according to the
legislation, Chinese cars will face
among the steepest tariffs at 50%.
Meanwhile, while the rest of the world
prepares for the end of a rate cutting
cycle, China is teeing up the start of
one. The country's economic policy
makers have pledged to adopt supportive
monetary and fiscal policy to lift
weakening momentum, planning to quote
flexibly and efficiently use interest
rate and reserve requirement cuts to
ensure sufficient liquidity.
And a change in the cocoa in the seauite
at Coca-Cola. The beverage giant says
CEO James Quincy is stepping down and
will be replaced at the end of March by
Henrique Braun, the company's chief
operating officer. Quincy assumed the
CEO role in May of 2017 and under his
management. As you can see, coke shares
rose more than 60%. Better brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Up next, a fractured
Fed.
>> The views are are more varied. The
situation is is that our two goals are a
bit intention. Everyone on the panel on
the committee agrees to the facts, but
we disagree on how to deal with the
risks.
>> Claudia Assam of New Century Adviserss
joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Futures fading ahead of Broadcom
earnings later today. That Fed meeting
not exactly keeping the lift after
yesterday. We saw a huge rally. today
pulling back about 4/10en of a percent
still seeing that bid into bonds with
10-year yields at 4.13%
under surveillance this morning a
fractured Fed
>> the views are are more varied situation
is is that our two goals are a bit
intention
>> there could have been a lot more
dissents in favor of no uh rate cuts
>> I was hoping for a Fed that was more
divided there was scope to get greater
descent everyone on the panel on the
committee agrees to the facts But we
disagree on how to deal with the risks.
>> Here's the latest. The Fed facing three
denters for the first time going back to
2019. Fed presidents Austin Goulsby and
Jeffrey Schmid voting to hold rates
steady. Governor Steven once again
voting to cut rates by 50 basis points.
Claudia S of New Century Adviserss
saying we may have seen the last cut for
several months, writing, "The Fed wants
to wait and see inflation move toward 2%
to cut again if all goes according to
plan." Powell presided over his last
rate cut as Fed chair yesterday. Claudia
joins us now. Claudia, great to see you.
Thank you for being with us. I want to
start given that kind of backdrop that
you think this could be his last rate
cut as Fed chair. What did you make of
his emphasis in the labor market and
potential weakness there?
>> Right. Well, I think you know Pal came
out and really justified why there was
yet another rate cut. They've had 75
basis points of rate cuts this year, a
year in which we have not seen progress
on inflation overall. So, it really was
important for him to justify the move
that the that the Fed took yesterday.
And I thought he did a good job of
justifying that move, focusing on the
weakness in the labor market and yet
also recognizing we still have a problem
with inflation.
>> Claudia, there was this very dovish
admission from the Fed chair as he
talked about potential underounting uh
of jobs. And I'm curious what you made
of that remark that there could be an
undercount to the size of 60,000. there
could be sort of negative guess negative
growth isn't the right phrase, but there
could be sort of more problems with the
labor market than um than we've seen
thus far. What did that tell you? How
when we tipped his hand in that way,
what did it say to you just about the
state of this cracked labor market?
>> Well, I think it also just said how
close a call this was in terms of doing
another rate cut. So, I mean, the
individuals and PAL is clearly among
them that felt that the labor market
needed a little bit more of a buffer. I
mean, they had to to strengthen their
case, even from the last meeting where
there was a cut. And so, looking really
hard at the payroll data and the
potential biases that might be in there.
Just a matter of how the collection's
done and, you know, working through the
process. I think they were just showing
you that I mean, really, you know, they
dug deep to to justify this rate cut.
And I don't think, you know, there have
been concerns about this voiced outside
of the Fed. It was it was news that they
were kind of digging into those details.
Frankly, I thought the rising
unemployment rate probably could have
made the case for them alone, but you
know, it's good for them to show their
work, all the things they're thinking
about.
>> Help me with the phrase broadly neutral.
We heard that from the Fred Fed chair
yesterday uh as well. Your your sense of
sort of I I know there's some
ineffability when it comes to the
neutral rate, but but what did you make
of that phrase that he used yesterday?
>> Right. Well, so yes, there there's, you
know, estimates all over the map in
terms of what the neutral rate is. I
think it's important a lot of what's
written down in in the summary of
economic projections, that's about the
long run. We're not in the long run.
Inflation is still elevated and it's
kind of inflation adjusted Fed funds
rate that's important. And so there's
really a lot of range. But what it's
telling you is the Fed is recognizing
that right now where they have monetary
policy, they are neither pushing down on
the economy in a measurable way and
they're not pushing up on the economy in
a measurable way either. They're kind of
in a stance where they could go in
either direction. Uh and that's that's
an important one. I think it really
that's another way of the Fed
underscoring the bar is really high for
another cut.
>> Claudia, I want to just uh touch on a
minute the intention versus the
potential outcomes. And when I look at
the world postco in particular, given
asset reflation, given massive spending
on AI, it seems to me that like all the
drivers of the economy today are rate
insensitive. They're rate inelastic.
When I think about the intention of this
goal of this uh rate cut, it's perhaps
to get other parts of the economy, other
parts of the consumer cohort uh
stimulated, but I'm not necessarily sure
that's going to be the actual outcome.
What is the risk of more inflation
coming out of this particular
initiative? And then does that hurt
people more than intended?
Well, I think a a big lesson from this
cycle in general the last uh six years
has been that some really big drivers
both on inflation and in the labor
market are when we have changes on the
supply side. Like a lot of the inflation
that we had to deal with in the pandemic
and frankly if you think of the tariff
inflation as well, it's about cost
pushing into the economy. That's not the
Fed's tool with interest rates really is
about moving around demand. Now, just
because there's a lot of supply side,
you know, factors buffeting the economy
doesn't mean the Fed should sit back and
do nothing, but it does make the point
that they're not kind of all powerful in
terms of being able to smooth out uh
the, you know, the bumps in in the
cycle. So, I think that continues to be
a reminder. And also, you know, the Fed
is not going to solve the labor market.
I mean, we do have slowing down in the
labor market, but what they're doing by
pulling out their restriction is they
don't want to be a part of continuing,
you know, they don't want to be playing
a role in further slowing. So, but
again, it's these other factors in the
economy are going to loom very large
going into next year.
>> Claudia S of New Century Adviserss,
thank you so much. Dan Skellyy, thank
you so much. You raised a really good
point at the very end there and
hopefully we'll get you on soon to talk
about it more. the idea of the financial
mechanism, the financial transmission
mechanism. How much are they actually
going to bring prices down if you've got
stocks near all-time highs? David,
you're going to be sticking with us, of
course, throughout the morning as we
charge toward that 8:30 a.m. jobless
claims. Do we get some validation of
that weakness that Fed chair J Powell
was talking about? Coming up next, Steve
Shiverone of Federated Hermes, Libby
Cantrol of Pimco, American Airlines
chief executive officer Robert Isam, and
Michelle Meyer of Mastercard Economics
Institute as we take a read on the
consumer. Is it waning? Is it waxing?
Which one? This is one surveillance.
this notion that the market can still
travel higher without the AI trade
leading. We're a bit skeptical about
that.
>> We are, let's just say we're waving the
yellow flag. We're being cautious.
>> Any company that wants to keep a
competitive edge needs AI.
>> Everyone's looking at how to incorporate
this into their process. Next year, I
think is really going to be the year of
the AI adopter.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
surveillance. Stocks fading from
yesterday's Fedfueled highs as
artificial intelligence fears take front
and center. The Fed delivering a rate
cut and less hawkish guidance.
Everything the market wanted, but Oracle
reigniting fears of overspending in the
AI space. Today, the focus turning very
much to the economy with jobless claims
on deck. David Gora here with us for the
three hours. I'm so glad to say uh that
you're with us. I'm just wondering how
much we could see some of the fears that
emerged from Oracle as being a good
thing or a bad thing.
>> That's a great question. Hope we can
talk about that more over the course of
this hour. But you're right, we had this
incredibly sharp reversal yesterday and
I think maybe that Fed meeting was a bit
of a distraction to this conversation we
had been having about potential
bubbleiciousness of of this market and
of the AI space uh in particular.
Curious as you say what what what the
chances are that this is kind of a proxy
for the entire industry and we'll see
kind of make its way uh as other
companies report here over the course of
the of the day. I like how you frame
that, the sort of competition between
the Fed and AI and it's sort of these
two narratives that seem to be neck
andneck trying to take the helm from one
another. Yesterday it was the Fed. We
saw a rally that was the best one day
Fed postfed rally going back to March
and then we saw Oracle reignite AI at a
certain point. Are they tied together
given the fact that the Fed very much is
looking at productivity gains from the
AI story?
>> It's a great question. We saw reporters
trying to get the Fed chairman to talk
more about the prospects for AI,
especially in the conversations about
the economic forecast the Feds gave us
yesterday. Um wasn't really biting the I
think a lot of people hoped that he
would, but but that marriage, that
intertwining of these two things is
something I think that will bear
watching during the months ahead,
>> especially given the fact that there's
huge division on the Federal Reserve. We
had of course the descents, three
descents, the most going back to 2019,
but
>> the quiet ones.
>> Exactly. The quiet ones definitely
indicating there wasn't a lot of
coalescing around one view going
forward. and the the Fed chair kind of
dismissing concern about that as well,
saying that he thinks that's healthy. Uh
indicating there was kind of a robust
conversation among policy makers, those
who voted in, those who who didn't. But
I think it is something that's going to
be something that's more manifest over
the course of these next few meetings,
certainly in his tenure, and then with
whomever takes over after that.
>> I feel like every time there are
conflicts, people say that's healthy,
and that's sort of what happens when
problems arise. Right now, we've got a
healthy selloff. Evidently, uh we have a
dip in futures ahead of the open led by
the NASDAQ, but we can see S&P futures
down by about uh 4/10en of a percent. A
bigger decline in the tech space. NASDAQ
lower by 7/10en of a percent. Russell
2000 doing better. And this is what you
would expect. Basically flat after the
increased view on potential rate cuts
after yesterday's Fed meeting. Twos,
tens, and 30s. You can really see a lift
at the front end. Price yields lower. We
saw almost an eight basis point decline
yesterday, 3.53% less of a rally into
the long end. Still looking at about 3
4.14% on the 10-year and close to 4.8%
on the 30-year. And when you bleed it
through the currency space, you see that
dollar weakness reigniting back through
that 117 level. We broke through. It had
been 116 at the previous Fed meeting,
just eking in some dollar weakness.
Coming up this hour, Steve Chronone of
Federated Hermes as mixed Oracle results
revive AI fears. Libby Cantrol of Pimco
as President Trump interviews Fed chair
candidates again and again. And American
Airlines CEO Robert is consumer demand
remains resilient. We begin this hour
with stocks sliding just a bit after
weak earnings report from Oracle. Steve
Chvyon of Federated Hermes staying
optimistic even though he's sitting in
the chair that I normally sit in with a
7,800 S&P target for 2026 writing,
"Credit conditions remain benign.
Valuations are elevated but nowhere near
levels seen in bubbles. This is a boom,
not a bubble." Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, love talking about the
anatomies of bubbles and you know, we're
going to have to stress test that. To
you, it's a positive sign that we're
seeing Oracle getting punished after
yesterday's earnings. Why? Well, because
it indicates that the exuberance is
rational, right? I mean, if you look at
MAG 7, right? Their positive cash flow,
hugely positive cash flow. In fact, more
cash flows generated in Mag 7 than the
rest of the S&P. And their proportion is
going up over the next two years, not
down. Um, and their net cash. Now, take
Oracle for example. Well, that's a very
different story. You're negative free
cash flow. You've got a large amount of
debt. And the market's punishing that.
They're saying, "Okay, it's overspending
because you can't afford it. It's not
overspending for the other MAG7 names.
And so I think that discernment that
you're seeing, that that critical eye
that you're seeing both on the bond
market with the CDS and the equity
market, that's evidence of a market
that's acting rationally, not one that's
acting irrationally. Bubbles are
irrational, right? You you reward bad
behavior until it crashes. We're not
doing that at this point. So, does it
encourage you to take more risk in the
AI space or does it just convince you
that you're not being reckless by
investing in the broader tech heavy
index?
>> So, look, you know, we've been on this
idea of a broadening out for a while.
So, we were slightly underweight large
cap growth for, you know, most of the
last couple of years. We've used
pullbacks, particularly the one that
occurred around liberation day to get
slightly overweight there. We feel that
that's good. You know, again, I I think
you're not going to get the kind of S&P
returns that we're looking at, which is
10% or so over the next couple of years,
unless these names are participating.
And I think MAG 7 are strong, but that
doesn't mean there aren't opportunities
in cyclicals. That doesn't mean there
aren't opportunities in small caps. And
so, we're overweight, but we don't feel
like we're over our skis there. We feel
like it's a good kind of healthy place
to be. I'm going to keep ringing this
bell about timing over the course of the
morning. But you look at a company like
Oracle which has really gone through
this metamorphosis or self- reinvention.
I think playing up the cloud part of its
business to kind of benefit its
complimentarity with with AI and the
potential growth of of AI. How do you
think about timing? So you talk about
the the lack of free cash flow, the
amount of money that they're pouring
into this, the debt that they're putting
into it. Um what kind of patience do you
have do you think people should have as
this begins to evolve and grow?
>> Again, I think you have to think about
Oracle and its particular issues and the
rest of the Mag 7. Remember the the rest
of the mag 7 had businesses and have
businesses that were doing
extraordinarily well and generating
records amount of free cash flow before
chat GPT was ever launched. And so,
okay, let's say that they were
overinvesting and had to pull back. What
are you left with? Even better free cash
flow generation from seven great
business models. Oracle, on the other
hand,
>> was struggling, right? It had a software
business that wasn't reacelerating. So,
if AI doesn't pay out, where does that
really leave them? And I think that
that's the difference. Um, again, we we
saw this and you see it with companies
like Apple, you see it with with some of
the other names in the Mag 7. There's
just good underlying businesses there
which allow you to be very patient and
say, "Okay, if AI revenues don't come
for a year and a half or two years,
well, I'm still making a ton of money on
the legacy business." For Oracle, I
don't think that's the case. So again, I
think it is that discerning though,
David, that indicates a healthy market,
not one that's irrational.
>> Let me move from the the mega caps to
small caps. Lisa put up the Russell
2000. It did have a huge bump on the
heels of that Fed me was up by 1.3% and
there's been this roing narrative. When
are small caps going to going to take
off? How do you look at those companies
>> in particular? What's going to be the
catalyst that's going to uh make the
move and sort of stay higher? So, I'm
going to defy the bearish chair here, if
you will, um,
>> and say one, I I would not be surprised
at all if if the market finished higher
today, and small caps are one of the
reasons why. You see that they're
they're leading in the pre-market here.
They led yesterday. In fact, if you look
at since Liberation Day, they've kind of
kept pace with large cap growth, and
it's the first time, and it's been very
quiet and maybe under reportported that
you've seen small caps have a sustained
rally now for eight months. Um, and I
think the big news for them yesterday
was the purchases on the short end of
the curve and and and I know it's not QE
and I know the official line and all
that, but small caps have high variable
rate debt that's tied to the short rate.
You're buying bonds on the short end of
the curve. You take that short rate
down. We've seen the yield curve steepen
a little bit with short rates falling
more and that provides relief. So I
look, I I think you've got an economy
and and the Fed recognized this
yesterday. You have an economy that's
reacelerating a little bit. They had to
raise their GDP estimates and you've got
rates that are lower now. I I know they
only have one cut in there for next
year, but that's it's going to be more
than one. Um, and that really does help
the small caps. It I think you've got a
cyclical uplift coming in 26. I think
they can continue to play well.
>> What are we calling it if not QE? You
did the quotation fingers QE yesterday.
>> Oh, yeah. Well, I mean, they they went
in to say, "Please ignore everything
we're about to say." And then they said,
"We're bringing forward our timing of
buying $40 billion of T- billills. And
by the way, it's significantly more than
we expected. And by the way, it's
probably not going to stop for quite a
while. But ignore this part of the
story." And everyone went, "Woohoo!
Party like it's 1999." And I just wonder
from your perspective going forward, how
much any kind of rotation is underpinned
by this idea that the Fed wants to run
the economy hot at a time of techn
technological transition that could
ultimately cause job losses, right?
Right. I mean, they want to keep things
robust so they don't get that kind of
scarring in the labor market.
>> So, Pal didn't really say it with his
words, David. I think that was your
point earlier. Um, but the dot plot said
it very loudly. The not the dot plots,
the the the uh the economic projections.
>> They're building higher productivity
into those numbers, right? I mean, you
have growth estimates from the Fed that
are accelerating and you had inflation
estimates that are coming down. And I
think if you look at some of the new Fed
chair candidates, which I'm sure we're
going to talk about a little later, I
think those particularly if you're
talking about someone like Kevin Hasset,
I think he's more than willing to really
start to forecast those productivity
gains. And so I think that does allow
you to run rates a little bit lower,
kind of like what you did in the '90s.
Um I I think the other element here too,
and we got to remember this, just
because we can't imagine the jobs that
AI will create, doesn't mean that they
won't be created. history, you know,
technology has evolved in a positive
direction for 2,000 years. Lisa, do you
feel like you don't have enough work to
do these days? So, we'll leave that.
>> Don't answer don't answer that. I mean,
so I I I think, you know, there's
there's not going to be any shortage of
of things for people to do. We'll figure
it out. And if you have the new idea of
what those jobs are going to be,
congratulations, you're the next
billionaire. So yeah, there'll be some
creative destruction, but this idea
that, you know, massive amounts of
people are going to be out of work
because of AI, the history just argues
very strongly against that.
>> You just turned this on its head. Made
people hope for that kind of creative
destruction where you get a robot.
Hello, good morning. Welcome to
Bloomberg Survey. Steve Shiver, a
federated Hermes is sticking with us for
the hour. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your bl brief with Yahara on it. Yahira,
>> hi Lisa. Eli Lily reporting. Its next
generation obesity shot helped patients
lose nearly a quarter of their body
weight, more than what was expected.
This latest trial included patients with
obesity and knee pain. The results
helped cement Lily's dominance in the
obesity market that's expected to hit
$100 billion by 2030.
Meanwhile, President Trump weighing in
on the bidding war for Warner Brothers.
The c the president saying he would
oppose a deal that doesn't include new
ownership of CNN, creating a potential
issue for Netflix's bid. The streaming
giant's plan includes a spin-off of
Warner's cable channels. Paramount, for
its part, is trying to buy the company
outright for $30 a share. And the Trump
administration is now accepting
applications for gold card visa
applications. The program offers
residency permits for a price with
individuals paying $1 million and
businesses paying $2 million as well as
a $15,000 processing and vetting fee.
President Trump says the program is
critical to helping businesses hire
foreignb born graduates of American
universities. That's your brief. Lisa,
thank you so much. Up next, honest with
interest rates.
I'm meeting with Kevin Walsh today and
I'm looking for somebody
that will be honest with interest rates.
It's our rate should be the lowest rates
in the world.
>> Libby Cantrol of Pimco joins us next
plus Steve Chron on his detailed
forensic analysis of why rates should be
substantially lower. Right, Steve?
>> No.
>> You're watching the Bloomberg
Surveillance.
What a round trip it's been over the
past 24 hours. Some trepidation heading
into the Fed meeting, then jubilation
that you got a rate cut and some more
dovish commentary. And then Oracle
slapped that down with an expectation of
more spending without commensurate
revenue increases. Now down 4/10en of a
percent on S&P futures. Dollar weaker
but just slightly 117 on the Euro dollar
cross. The bid into bonds is real. It is
concentrated at the front end of the
yield curve. You're seeing a steepening
even though yesterday saw an eight basis
point decline in the 2-year on the
10-year. It was just a couple of basis
points. Continuing that bid today 4.13%
under surveillance this morning honest
with interest rates.
>> Well, I'm meeting with Kevin Walsh
today. So, I'm meeting with him. I sort
of have a very good idea what I'm
looking for. Again, I'm looking for
somebody
that will be honest with interest rates.
That's I just want honesty. Our rate
should be much lower. Our rate should be
the lowest rates in the world. Here's
the latest. President Trump meeting with
finalists for the next Federal Reserve
chair, including Fed Governor Kevin
Worsh. The president saying he could
announce his nominee within the next two
weeks. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now. Tyler, this seems like the story
that just won't go away. It's going to
happen in the next couple of weeks. It's
going to happen early next year. The
final round's happening now. It's
happening next week. It's happening next
year. Where are we in this flowchart of
the Fed game?
Well, I think that actually was a pretty
good summation of where we are, Lisa,
because President Trump has echoed
things and then has changed the
timeline, for example, saying that we
could hear early next year. Now, it
might come within the next two weeks.
But what we do know is that he's
reiterated one through line in the past
couple of weeks, which is that he
already has a pretty good idea of who he
would like to see replace Jerome Powell.
He also went on in that bite that you
played to say that he is not making any
of these candidates take a pledge to cut
interest rates though earlier in the
week suggested that a quick reduction in
borrowing costs would be a litmus test
for any new Fed chair. Now, as you well
know, in addition to former Fed Governor
Kevin Worsh, the other candidates
include current Fed Governors Chris
Waller, Michelle Bowman, Black Rock's
Rick Reer, and of course, the apparent
front runner in all of this NEC chair
Kevin Hassid, who in recent days, I
think it's fair to say, has tried to put
front and center this idea of central
bank independence, amid concerns that
he's too close to President Trump as a
key ally and longtime adviser to both
the first and Trump administrations, and
that he could cut rates too
aggressively. We heard from him earlier
in the week at this Wall Street Journal
event, saying that one of the most
important jobs of any Fed chair is to
stay out of politics, yet at the same
time still aligned himself with
President Trump's repeated call for
lower borrowing costs. Now, Lisa uh
Powell's term as chair is up in May of
2026. I think it's important to point
out that Bloomberg News is reporting
that whoever is chosen to replace him is
expected to take the slot that opens up
on the Fed Board of Governors that's
currently held by Steven Myron, who's
only on temporary leave from the CEA.
That slot becomes available in early
January.
>> Tyler Kendall, great reporting as
always. Thank you so much. Libby Cantrol
of Pimco joining us now for more. Libby,
thank you so much for being here. Why
not just give the role to Kevin Hassid
at this point?
Well, I mean, look, I think that this is
obviously I mean, President Trump loves
a horse race. Uh, and I think he loves
the drama and of course he doesn't need
to nominate anybody until Powell's term
is up, which is of course, as you know,
not until May of 2026. And so, there
really is no rush here. Uh, but I do
think this is, you know, sort of speaks
to uh the dramatic uh that that that the
president that the president likes. I
mean I do you know you know kind of a
broader issue though is sort of this
these rumors that there has been kind of
push back on on Hasset. I think it does
show that um even though the market has
been pretty sanguin about Fed
independence that there may be some
concerns and that when you have somebody
from the White House that then rotates
to the Fed uh that there could be some
politicization of the you know of of the
institution.
>> Liby you hear from the president saying
that what he cares about being honest
about interest rates. there there's more
to it than that of course and I think
that there was a narrative for a while
that this was going to be a reformer and
I think Kevin Walsh represents that he's
somebody who's talked a lot about the
way the Fed is structured and what could
change. Um do other candidates share
those same inclinations? How much does
the president prize I should say we
heard from the Treasury Secretary he's
interested in reforming the way the
whole system is set up who can be
regional presidents and the like. Um how
big an issue is that do you think for
the president as he goes through this
surge? Yeah, I mean maybe not for the
president himself, but I do think for
this administration and I think for you
know many folks on the hill as well. I
mean this has been a long time in
coming. Obviously Congress has tried to
pass legislation to reform the Fed um
that requires 60 votes. So they haven't
been able to get kind of bipartisan
support. But I do think we could see
some reforms. But I do, you know, it's
important to contextualize what the
reforms could be and what is possible.
um there's just not as much that the
president or a Fed chair can do
unilaterally without actually changing
the law. And of course, you need
Congress to change the law. So, could we
see sort of incrementally how reserve
presidents are chosen um maybe a little
bit more pressure on reserve presidents?
Of course, the Fed board does have
authority over um sort of who stays as a
regional president. Um, but I think just
by and large there's probably I think
you know we're expecting more
incremental uh reforms or if if any just
given some of those constraints. So
>> let's say Cass is the front runner which
Bloomberg has reported and you point out
the fact there's been this kind of
growing concern within the bond market
about him as a potential Fed share that
kind of became something we first saw in
the the FT piece a couple of days ago
now seeing that brought in a little bit
more. What does the bond market want to
see? I think of what Anna Wong, our
colleague at Bloomberg uh economics,
wrote saying like she knows Kevin
Hasset. She's worked alongside him.
Actions speak louder than words. He's
somebody who has talked a lot about Fed
independence and prized it through the
the entirety of his career. He did
advise some more traditional Republicans
in in years past. What does he have to
do to kind of assuage or pacify those
who are concerned about the prospects of
him being the next Fed chair? Yeah, I
think as as you know um there's what he
says publicly and what he says uh you
know to the media and in this you know
should he get nominated that
allimportant confirmation hearing but
also what he says privately uh and to uh
the you know very key Republican uh
senators who will effectively cast sort
of the the uh the vote whether he gets
nominated or not. So I think what they
want to see is again just reassurances
that they you know that he will uphold
independence that he will not um be sort
of assuaged by the whomever's in the
pres who's ever in the White House
because of course this next Fed chair
will outlive uh President Trump's term
and will uh be in for whomever is
president in 2029. Um and that also that
some of these um rumors about the
regional presidents and what have you uh
may that again maybe the reforms will be
more incremental and not necessarily
existential.
>> Let me how do you think about the bond
market and its reaction all of this for
all the kind of rumors of push back
since Bloomberg broke the the kind of
hasset news. 10-year yield has been
relatively well behaved. Two-year yields
relatively well behaved. I think you
know the warp is still pricing in kind
of a 3% terminal rate. It seems like the
bond market is taking the the the kind
of measure of hasset and saying it's not
a really uh significant shift in policy
and bond market seems relatively
comfortable. How do you how do you react
to that?
>> Yeah, I think to what I to I just said
earlier I mean I do think the bond
market has been relatively sanguin about
this just about in general this fear
about Fed independence and I think that
um you know kind of you know maybe
underscores two things. One is that
oftentimes the market doesn't believe
anything until they actually see it. And
so they're not going to necessarily just
trade on speculation or on rumor. And of
course we don't even have a Fed chair
nominee yet. It's all just been kind of
this, you know, of course the you know
the the drama. But I also think you know
number two is that the that the market
understands some of these guard rails
that are in place and that while the
chair of course is very important, the
chair is not kind of almighty u in terms
of uh changing monetary policy and that
of course it is the majority of as you
know the FOMC 12 members not just the
seven Fed you know board governors and
then also you know not to overstate the
sort of confirmation process but
something I um maybe to to their grin
always reinforce to our investment
committee committee is that this advice
and consent role that the US Senate
plays is very important and actually if
you just look at the number of nominees
that this president has had to withdraw
uh it's really unprecedented and it's
you know it's all kind of been back
channeling and in private um but that
sort of speaks to the fact that the
Senate they have not had the the votes
in the Senate to confirm those nominees.
So I think if somebody were to be
nominated who would be sort of too
political, who would really compromise
the independence of the Fed, I think the
bond market is reassured that the Senate
would push back.
>> This goes to a bigger question and I was
glad that you went there about how much
Republicans are starting to push back on
President Trump after some of the recent
elections and some of the recent losses
on the part of certain Republican
candidates. Do you get the sense that
there is a greater constraining of some
of the more extreme policies by Congress
as a result of some of the recent
elections?
>> You know, I do. I think the political
runway for this president is absolutely
shortening. Um, but I would also say
that this is very consistent with
history. Uh if you look at Biden's
administration, you know, the Democrats
uh of course had both the House and the
Senate uh in the his first two years and
they basically allowed the Biden to do
whatever he kind of wanted to do, right?
To really advance his policy agenda that
first year. However, as you got closer
to the midterms, as you had some of
these sort of offcycle elections, the
Democrats really did start pushing back
on President Biden. I think that's the
correlary here. the kind of the parallel
is that, you know, Republicans have been
pushing back on the president sort of
privately, but I think we expected them
to do that more, you know, more
publicly. But again, this is not
necessarily President Trump specific.
This is kind of just the political cycle
in in Washington.
>> Libby Cantrol of Pimco. Wonderful to see
you as always. Steve, I'd ask you then,
does that constrain how many hopes and
dreams there are for fiscal stimulus
come early next year?
>> No. I mean, I think you might see a
little bit more of an impetus after the
after these kind of offcycle elections.
is I think you're probably seeing
Republicans getting a little bit nervous
in the House and Senate and wanting to
positively impact the economic lives of
folks that are pretty frustrated. So, I
think you could see another impetus
there. And then I' I'd say on on the
whole Hasset thing, I think we're trying
to make a little bit more out of it than
there is. I mean, he's a
>> work with us here, Steve.
>> I mean, I mean, Lisa, he's he's a
mainstream candidate. I think he's the
second most cited, you know, sellside
economist since Milton Freriedman. He's,
you know, he was AEI. It's not like he's
from some, you know, off-the-wall place.
And I think the market has demonstrated,
at least so far, relative comfort. So,
you know, I'm sure the these these
interviews are important, as always,
things can change, but I think this is
just legitimizing him at this point.
>> Well, that's the reason why I think a
lot of people think it's a trial balloon
continually being put out to see how the
market responds. Coming up, we have an
exclusive one-on-one interview with
American Airlines CEO Robert Isum. A
true read on the consumer going forward.
The bookings are strong. Plus, Yahara
Anand with your morning movers. Shares
of Broadcom taking a hit ahead of their
earnings as AI bubble fears continue to
grow. More analysis of bubbles coming
up.
Pulling back from some of the earlier
lows, seeing a bit of a bid as the day
grows older. As Steve was saying
earlier, maybe we will end the day in
the green with some of the naysayers of
a big tech getting uh pulled back. Right
now we're seeing about a quarter%
decline on the S&P a bit into bonds a
bit of dollar weakness and even with
everything going on with Venezuela oil
prices crude traded on the NSAX down
1.1% two hours away from the cash open
here are your morning movers with Yahira
on endra hi Lisa Oracle's disappointing
results hitting the AI trade this
morning. Oracle says it plans to add
another $15 billion in spending through
2026 bringing capex to $50 billion. And
that is stoking fears among investors
because they think the reser the the
returns are just not showing up fast
enough. And that is why we are seeing
shares of Nvidia and Meta big AI
spenders lower this morning. And
Oracle's results don't bode well for
Broadcom which reports after the bell
today. Those shares are down 1.4%.
Meanwhile, moving on to Gemini Space
Station. No, this is not a space company
as you said, Lisa. This is a crypto firm
run by the Winklevoss twins and shares
are surging 14% in the pre-market after
regulators cleared the firm to launch a
derivatives exchange opening the door to
potentially uh it entering the red hot
prediction market already dominated by
the likes of Koshi and Poly Market. And
we end on Eli Liy. Those shares are up
nearly 2%. On some news this morning
that its next generation obesity shot
topped expectations, helping patients
shed nearly a quarter of their body
weight and drastically reducing knee
pain. Lily says that some patients lost
so much weight that they actually
dropped out of the trial. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. You I'm thinking
about what a surveillance space station
would do. It could create some sort of
new technology that could generate a
space-like feeling after doing it for
too long. I think that could be good.
Anyway, moving on. On our radar this
morning, Oracle reporting a jump in
spending on data centers, reviving AI
bubble fears among investors. The second
the company's fiscal second quarter
cloud sales and its infrastructure both
falling short of estimates. Those shares
building on losses even with the rest of
the index climbing back down more than
12%. Meanwhile, US forces intercepting
and seizing a sanctioned oil tanker off
the coast of Venezuela. The action may
make it harder for Venezuela to export
its crude.
>> What happens to the oil on that ship?
>> Well, we keep it, I guess.
>> What does it go to?
>> Well, you have to follow the tanker. You
know, you're a good newsman. Just follow
the tanker.
>> Venezuela calling the seizure a quote
blatant theft and an act of piracy.
Meanwhile, President Trump slamming Fed
chair J. power over the FOMC decision to
lower interest rates by 25 basis points.
>> The head of the Federal Reserve is a
stiff. He did a he did a uh
rather I would say a rather small number
that could have been doubled at least
doubled.
>> The president saying a decision on Pal's
replacement could come within the next
two weeks. We do want to turn to
airlines. Carriers are gearing up for
what is expected to be a record-breaking
holiday travel season. I sat down with
the American Airlines CEO, Robert Isam,
to talk about consumer demand. Take a
listen.
>> We're really pleased with how we see the
Christmas and New Year holidays shaping
up and and even more so as we take a
look out into the into the the the first
quarter of 2026. You know, the
government shutdown, it had a dampening
effect on on demand, but I really like
what I've seen in terms of bookings post
that. And we're ready. Uh, you know, an
airline is a a big complex operation and
it takes people and equipment and, you
know, systems to all be working. Uh,
we've double, triple checked and I'm so
proud of our team. They're ready.
>> So, we've heard from Delta, we've heard
from United, we've heard from another a
number of other airlines about the hit
to revenues in the fourth quarter as a
result of the government shutdown. I
don't believe that American has come out
with anything like that. Do you have
some sort of estimate of what type of
revenue was lost due to the
cancellations during the government
shutdown?
>> Well, it's just been a month ago that we
were talking about uh our our third
quarter earnings and and talking about
what we were envisioning for the fourth
quarter and really optimistic about
bookings that that had happened. And at
the time we were, you know, in the midst
of of of government shutdown, but the
impact was was fairly light. You know,
at the time we were saying less than a
million dollars, you know, per per day.
But as things developed and then we got
to the mandated pullbacks, um look,
there was an impact and it was
substantial. Uh and it not only was it
uh for the day of travel and the
cancellations that might have happened
or the disruptions, but it was also for
the bookings that would have happened
during that period. And so there was a
dampening effect during during the
period. Again, the good news is that as
soon as we get out of that disruption,
as soon as we get to really having an
airline uh uh system that people have
confidence in, they come back to travel.
And so that's what gives me great
optimism for uh the the holidays and as
we look into the into the first quarter.
I have to be honest, when I talk to
people in the industry, the sense of
palpable frustration that this is sort
of the hot potato in any kind of
negotiation is really notable,
especially heading into potentially
another government shutdown in January.
Is there anything you can do to get
ahead of it?
>> Well, I don't I don't like that. Uh,
aviation is critical infrastructure to
the country, and I think everybody in in
the administration, everybody in the
House and Senate uh realize that we have
to do the things to keep critical
infrastructure running. And while it's
commercial aviation, I'd also say, you
know, other, you know, really important
industries, drones and evatls and
anything that depends that's taking into
account air mobility depends on air
traffic control and we can't use it, you
know, really as a uh a battleground. So,
I'm confident that uh our our
politicians will get together and figure
out a way. It starts with protecting our
air traffic controllers. Nobody should
be asked to come to work and not be paid
and nobody should be used as a pawn in
in in a a political negotiation. So, I'm
really hopeful that by the time we get
into January, this will be long behind
us.
>> In the meantime, the airline industry is
incredibly competitive, as you know, and
uh we've heard Delta and United talk
about their premium offering, talk about
increasing their revenue. United in
particular, Scott Kirby, has come out
and said that United and Delta are kind
of taking off and apart from American
Airlines. How are you fighting back
given that that's the backdrop that you
have?
>> Wouldn't they like to be that to be so?
It's it's absolutely not. It's
absolutely not true. And as a matter of
fact, you take a look at American
Airlines history. We're the ones that
developed the frequent flyer pro
programs and air airport lounges and the
hub and spoke system and global
distribution systems. There's a there's
just an ethos of innovation at American
Airlines. and really the investments
that we've made uh over the last decade
are all set uh to come about and and be
ready for where customers want to go. So
I was flying back from from London over
the weekend and our new flagship suite
on our 7879P
uh and you know I can tell you that
hands down that is the best product
among any of the network carriers in
terms of of of of experience. This year
we've we've announced uh the the opening
of the new Philadelphia flagship lounge.
Uh, we've got a Miami flagship and a
Charlotte flagship coming. Nobody has
more more premium quality lounges than
American Airlines. We're going to do a
better job at packaging this all
together. We have an extreme focus on
customer experience. We got a new
organization that's just totally
dedicated to that. And just about every
week there's a new announcement with
Lovata Coffee, our champagne bologing,
uh, or you know, Raven and Lily amenity
kits. Uh I'm really excited about that
all being packaged and us, you know,
certainly, you know, talking about that
in a fashion that that people
understand. You know, we've got the best
loyalty program. We got the best product
and it's where people should be flying.
>> One thing that American Airlines has for
it is it's more focused on the domestic
regime than some of the other
competitors. And I'm just wondering if
there's an effort to sort of expand the
international network as that does
become a higher margin offering for so
many airlines.
>> Well, that's right. in this year that
exposure to the domestic uh region it
had an adverse impact on us. We didn't
have as much international exposure.
International did very well over the
course of the year. Domestic not so so
much. So we had uncertainty the you know
the accident with 5342. So there was a
lot of things that we had to overcome
and and and we've done that. But I feel
really good about where we're headed. Uh
and when it comes to international uh
we're ready. So, not only are the 7879Ps
delivering, but tomorrow we got a big
announcement on our 321 XLR aircraft,
and those are those are coming out as
well. So, you'll see us uh open up more
secondary cities in Europe. You'll just
see us do more flying into the hubs of
our some of our partner carriers, and
international probably outgrow uh what
we do from a domestic perspective, but
the two are connected. And, you know,
I'm really pleased with our domestic
operation. We're we're going to always
have the best domestic network. And you
know, you go back, you know, a number of
years and domestic, you know,
outperformed uh international and we're
going to be ready for domestic doing
well and international doing well,
premium doing well, uh and really
pleased with where we're at.
>> You've been working on upgrading the
entire fleet and that's something that's
been really important for you,
especially as you get some of these
premium offerings in place. How much
have some of the slowdowns, supply chain
issues at Boeing and Airbus hampered
that ability to really retrofit some of
the uh the fleet? Well, where we stand
today, we have the youngest fleet in the
industry. We we made a tremendous
investment uh from about 2014 to to
about 2020, and we bought on well over
$30 billion of of new aircraft. So, we
have the youngest fleet in the business
right now. But on top of, you know, new
deliveries that we're taking. We don't
have any retirements planned. Uh so,
we're reconfiguring our trip 7300s and
our trip 7200s, we're putting flagship
suites on those. uh even domestically
we're doing uh work on our 320s and 319s
but we still depend on new deliveries
and from that perspective you know we
have a lot of dependence on Airbus to
deliver the 321 XLRs Boeing to to
continue to deliver the Max 8s and
hopefully be ready to deliver the Max
10s that we have on order in 2028. Um,
right now my my only push to the OEMs is
deliver on time, deliver a quality
product, stick to it before you ramp up.
Let's make sure we can do what uh you
know, you're you're you're on the books
to deliver. Now,
>> just taking a step back in the airline
industry more broadly, there's been this
huge uh focus on the supreme product,
the the luxury product, and I wonder
what you see in terms of bookings next
year, whether it really is the premium
product that's continuing to lead and
the robustness that you see there while
other things fall off. Is it bifurcated
in terms of the bookings and the demand
or do you see a wholesale sort of
rejuvenation in the interest in travel
and ability to spend and pay the prices
that actually are there?
>> Well, I'll I'll just start with this.
Demand is has been, you know, resilient,
right? Every time there's cold water po
cold cold water poured on the the the
the the environment, it seems like, you
know, travelers want to come back as
evidenced by, you know, bookings for the
holiday season and as we take a look
into into the fourth first quarter of of
next year. I have confidence though
that, you know, overall people want to
travel. And in that in people wanting to
travel, I also think that, you know,
whether you're more uh uh economy
focused and budget-minded or you're
premium services, everybody wants more.
Everybody wants better control.
Everybody wants more comfort. So, I
don't think that there is going to be
any going back in terms of offering
product at any level of of the the
spectrum of offerings. But for us, as we
go forward, you'll see us with our lie
flat seat offering. uh that's going to
grow by 50% over the next few years.
Premium seating 20% over the over the
next few years. Uh whether you're a
business traveler who's who've always
wanted, you know, more of that, you
know, comfort and ease of of of touch or
you're a leisure traveler, there's much
more of a demand to really have a better
experience and we're going to meet them
there no matter how how how you you you
take it. That was American Airlines CEO
Robert Isome and we were really looking
at the consumer at a time where that's a
huge question going forward. Steve
Shiverone still with us and Steve I want
to get your take on the consumer. We've
heard kind of mixed messages Dollar
Tree, Dollar General doing better. Uh at
the same time, how much are we seeing
any kind of revival in consumer spending
led by the top end continuing or is this
broad-based? Is this also happening in
the lower income cohorts? No, I I think
this might end up being the big
contrarian call of 26 actually is a is a
rejuvenation of the consumer and
consumer related stocks. You know, you
look through rates are lower, which
takes some borrowing costs off. Starting
in January, people forget because the
bill passed last July, but starting in
January, you have about $150 billion
annually in stimulus hitting and it
really hits that middle consumer, right?
That that $100,000 earner. Maybe it's a
policeman. Maybe it's a fireman who's
making a h 100,000. But now all of a
sudden that that overtime isn't taxed.
Plus on this travel, leisure, and kind
of entertainment b business, you have an
Olympics, you have the World Cup, and
you have America 250. You put all of
that together on what's already been a
pretty strong back to not back to
school, uh, Black Friday season here,
and I think you've got a story of a
consumer that awakens again next year.
And you're seeing it in the airline
data, especially after people are
feeling that pent up demand when you
after the kind of government shutdown
which delayed air uh travel. So I I
think the consumer is the contrarian
call next year. I think relief is
coming. I think there's a lot of bad
news that's already baked in and I think
you're going to see a surprise here to
the upside.
>> David, are you flying a lot for fun?
>> Not a lot for fun. I mean, I still don't
find it that fun to fly, especially if
it's for for personal travel. But I am
curious. We talk a lot about the the
K-shaped economy in an observational way
and I think what's been driving that
sense that everyone has of that largely
is sentiment data how consumers feel is
what you're positing that you know when
these tax benefits come into effect
>> have that stimulative effect it's going
to change the way that people feel about
the economy.
>> Yeah. Because I think we forget because
we're doing this all the time and we're
focused on every policy announcement and
every economic data point. But for a lot
of Americans, all right, there was talk
of a tax bill that was back in July.
maybe they forgot about it or maybe
they're not focused on it in their
day-to-day life. Then all of a sudden
January 1st that first paycheck has some
more money in it and then you find out
in April that some of the provisions of
that tax bill were retroactive and are
going to get paid back in the form of a
larger tax return. So I think you could
see a kind of positive sentiment shock
as that paycheck is just a little bit
bigger, goes a little bit further and
the consumer is retrenched in what I
would call affordable luxuries. you see
restaurant spending down a little bit.
>> They may want to they may want to go
back out and eat. And I think you're
going to see that kind of play out in
the first quarter.
>> And this goes directly to challenge what
we're going to be talking about up next,
a global growth slowdown.
>> I believe that 2026 will be another year
where there will be both strength and
risks. If in 2026 we don't figure out a
way for countries to work better
together, we really are moving towards a
what I would call slow and silent
decoupling. Michelle Meyer of my
Mastercard Economic Institute joins us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
You can't keep a good market down.
That's essentially the takeaway from
equity. Futures actually have moved way
off some of the earlier lows. They had
been down about a half a percent on the
S&P. Now we're seeing futures off just
about by 310en of a percent. You're
seeing that ongoing dollar weakness and
the bid into bonds is strong and it's
strengthening throughout the morning.
Two basis points uh of a decline on the
10ear 4.12%.
The rally really has been at the front
end but still there is a participation
along the curve under surveillance this
morning. A global growth slowdown maybe.
>> I believe that 2026 will be another year
where there will be both strength and
risks. strength from the fact that we
still have the AI capital expenditure
that's happening. You have governments
around the world that are also doing
much more fiscal spending. If in 2026 we
don't figure out a way for countries to
work better together, we really are
moving towards what I would call slow
and silent decoupling.
>> Here's the latest. Investors looking
ahead to next year's growth as the
impact from tariffs and tech
advancements take shape. The team at
Mastercard's economic institute
predicting moderate global GDP growth at
3.1% in 2026. A key dynamic is continued
trade realignment between the US and
China. Joining us now is Michelle Meyer.
And Michelle, wonderful to see you as
always.
>> I would love to get your take on what
Steve Shiverone was just talking about,
which is that he thinks the stealth
story is the recovery and acceleration
in the consumer in 2026. Are you seeing
that in any of the data that you're
collecting?
>> Yeah, I would say it's probably not a
stealth story. It's the reality. Um, and
I think it has been the reality. Um,
that consumer has been extraordinarily
engaged. You just heard it from Robert
Isam in the interview you aired that
consumers are still traveling. You are
still seeing the embrace of
discretionary spending in addition to
the necessities. So, it's um consumers
that you know, again, it's going to vary
depending on the income cohort. That's a
big part of the narrative that it's not
even. It never is even, frankly. Um, but
you have consumer spending that is still
running at a healthy clip. For the
holiday shopping season, we're looking
for a mid-3% pace for holiday sales.
Black Friday came in with our data. We
saw a 4.1% increase and spending on
Black Friday.
>> How much is this inflationary? How much
is this because simply the prices were
higher, not necessarily more items were
ticketed.
>> So, you know, we'll find out for sure
once we get this CPI report at some
point. um let's say do you know when
it's going to be the like we'll know at
some point but in the interim uh what we
what we know as of now in terms of the
basket of holiday shopping items that we
typically see inflation's running maybe
around 2% or so year-over-year. So
certainly there's very much still real
spending and and and growth in terms of
volume.
>> When you look at where people are
spending money, what's the story that
emerges from that? So you talk about how
kind of um discerning consumers are
being about where they're spending it on
what. Yeah. Um can you break that down
by I don't know strata or sector. What
can that tell us just about people's
habits at this moment?
>> Yeah. So I I certainly think that
consumers are savvy. I think they have
been savvy this whole period of time
coming out of the pandemic once they
experience that price level shock that
was you know challenging for them. It
was the first time consumers saw a
significant increase in the price of
goods across the board. Um, and since
then I think consumers have been really
mindful in terms of what they buy, when
they buy, why they buy it. They
certainly concentrate spending around
promotional periods, which is what we
saw during the Black Friday period. Um,
but you know, making those choices,
making those choices that work for them.
As you look at kind of the evolution of
consumer psychology in this moment, I
think there was a lot of anxiety
surrounding the prospect of what tariffs
might mean for all of us. Has that
eroded at Steve just a moment ago
talking about uh how people might feel
once these tax benefits come into
effect. Are we at a point where the
immediate effects of those tariffs are
now not front of mind for a lot of
consumers? It's not as big of kind of a
psychic weight as it was at the
beginning of, you know, liberation day
and the like. Well, I think we've moved
from the headlines, the uncertainty to
the reality, right? So, now we're
actually seeing that enter into the
economy. It's still happening, but
there's a little bit more stability in
terms of the the uh process. Um, and I
think for consumers, what they're
focused on is when they walk into the
store, they try to purchase something
online, what is the price, and does it
make sense for their budget? And if it's
an item that prices have increased,
whether it's because of tariffs or
because of other reasons, they might
say, you know what, does it make sense?
How badly do I want it? Or can I buy
something else where I feel like I get
better value. So that decision is always
happening. And in a world where there's
more digitalization, where you have a
greater share of spending that's
happening online, more choices that are
out there for consumers, I think they
have a little bit more power to to
navigate this environment.
you talked about the um the kind of
unevenness of of consumer spending by
kind of income cohort. And I I'm
interested in in what trends you're
seeing at least over the holiday season.
You know, is the high-end focusing their
spending in a particular place? Is the
lower-end consumer are are they still
healthy? Where are they spending? Break
that down for us a little bit. Give us
an understanding of kind of how the
high-end and low-end consumer are
behaving through this holiday season.
>> Sure. So I mean we we don't have the
ability to break that down specifically
with our own um um aggregated data but
what we do look at is different baskets
of spending and how that varies across
um the US in terms of different
locations which could be a nice proxy
for income spending. Um and you know
this holiday season I would say it has
been a lead in has been experienced
spending has done well. So we've seen a
good amount of spending on restaurants,
travel, lodging, uh bit weaker in terms
of furniture, home improvement, um
footwear. So some of the more
discretionary goods categories that may
have tariff impacts where perhaps the
value isn't as as notable. Um and then
apparel has been a really strong one
this season.
>> Feels like kind of across the board as
well where we're seeing this this
engagement in terms of greater spending
on apparel. So, we shouldn't necessarily
look at all the sales as being just
people trying to reel in consumers that
are reluctant. I mean, when you have
things in your basket in Amazon or some
other uh company, how many times do you
get emails
>> often
>> from people saying
>> you haven't checked out the deal is
still there 15 days after Black Friday?
>> Well, that's true.
Desperate work.
>> That's true. Exactly. It's like well
more desperate. Michelle Meyer of
Mastercard Economic Institute, thank you
so much. And Steve, this really goes to
the point that you're making, which is
you think that there is going to be this
boost. Why then aren't you even more
bullish? We have 8,100 from the likes of
John Solsface. Why aren't you the
biggest bull in that chair?
>> That's absolutely right. The chair is is
dragging weighing it down.
>> No, look, we we've got a two-year
forecast of 8,600 out two years. I I I
think the story here is you just can't
push the multiple that far. So, you
know, we're we've got an earnings
estimate that's sitting, you know,
roughly 10% above the street. We've got
a multiple that's about flat to where it
is now, which is a pretty good multiple.
You know, I think that's good enough for
now. If there's an upside surprise,
that's great. But the reality is is
we're 6% overweight equities, which is
60% of our max. I think we're well
positioned.
>> Steve Shiverone of Federated Hermes,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. Always wonderful to get your
thoughts and we're heading into, of
course, 8:30 a.m. we get jobless claims
and that's where really uh the proof
meets the pudding or whatever the
expression is because right now it
really has to do with whether the labor
market holds in.
>> Yeah. and still in this moment where
we're not getting the data that we
expected to get when we were supposed to
get it. So I think that's still there's
a fog surrounding all of this. So each
of these data releases I think takes on
kind of an added level of importance.
>> Yeah. Well something.
>> Yeah. It's at least it's something
right. I love it. We'll see in the CPI
that we'll get at some point. We will be
getting jobless claims and that will be
coming up in about 35 minutes. Coming up
we're going to be speaking with Kristen
Bitterly of City Wealth at Work Goldman
Sachs vice chair Rob Kaplan. Loritai of
Tro Price and co-founder and co-chair of
Oak Tree Howard Marx. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Today, the Federal Open Market Committee
decided to lower our policy interest
rate by a quarter percentage point.
>> Nowhere near as bad as the market
feared,
>> but they really want to tell us that the
base case is a hold for January.
>> The first takeaway is the pause is in. I
think you could see some more rate cuts
in the back part of next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks fading from
yesterday's Fedfueled highs with AI
fears front and centers, but climbing
back from some of the earlier losses.
The Fed delivering a rate cut and less
hawkish guidance. That's the good news.
Oracle, however, reigniting fears of
overspending in the AI sphere. Today the
focus turning very much to the economy
with jobless claims on deck. David Gura
uh with us here and David to me this
really is the question. At what point
does the economy meet some of the
optimism that we're seeing in equities
borrowing maybe oracle uh in some of
what we saw yesterday?
>> Yeah. And I think these jobless claims
numbers taking on a bit of an outsized
role here in light of what the Fed
chairman said yesterday. This kind of
notion that maybe there's been an
underounting u of jobs uh overounting
rather of jobs in this country. What
that could mean if we're seeing negative
growth in the labor market. I think
making people once again recognize the
fact that yes, there's this dual
mandate, but the Fed is in this very
tricky position here of having to
operate somewhat blindly at a time when
there are real concerns with what's
going on in the labor market.
>> I think it's interesting what Steve
Shiverone said, and I think we should
sit on it for a minute when he said it's
a good thing that we're seeing Oracle
punished for spending more at a time
where its revenues are not keeping pace.
This shows discernment in a market that
really defies the calls for an allout
irrational exuberance that you typically
see at the top of a cycle. This is what
we're hearing from an increasing number
of investors.
>> I think a hopeful commentary there from
Steve. We'll see if that sort of plays
out as as the day goes on and we look at
these other companies in the AI space
that are reporting earnings here in the
days ahead. Um but there are plenty of
people as you write as you know who are
concerned with the fact that this does
seem very bubbly and this is something
just like another like alarm of concern
for them as they as they watch this
unfold.
>> Throwing money at the hopes and dreams
of technological advancement that we
can't quite put our fingers on. About
half an hour away from those jobless
claims. We also do get a host of Fed
speakers coming back to the podiums
after the quiet period is over. Coming
up today, we will be hearing from in
particular Austin Goulsby. Watch this
space given that he was one of the three
denters at yesterday's meeting. S&P
futures lower by about 310 of a percent
bit a dollar weakness across the board
although really we have been in that
range 116 117 for a couple of months
now. And that lift into bond prices,
yields lower, continuing, although
fading some of the earlier move. 10
tenure yields now barely lower at 414.
Coming up this hour, Kristen Bterley of
City as stocks failed to maintain post
Fed gains. Former Dallas Fed President
Robert Kaplan on the growing descent
within the central bank and Oak Tree
Capital Management co-chair Howard Marx
raising concerns about an AI bubble. We
begin this hour with the latest stock
rally on pause. Christine Bitterly of
City Wealth at Work writing, "We could
continue to see some volatility around
sentiment, but lower policy rates and
more accommodative liquidity settings
will aid cyclical tailwinds." Kristen
joins us now. And Kristen, this seems to
be building on exactly what we were
talking about with Steve. The idea that
the real upside surprise for next year
will come from the consumer that's been
hanging in there, but is poised to
accelerate.
>> Yeah, that was very interesting what he
was saying about the consumer that that
could be like the dark horse essentially
for next year. But I think you have to
take a step back and look at the
tailwinds that we're going to have. So
the macro tailwinds are certainly there.
So when we look at a more accommodative
Fed, when we look at the fact that
they're injecting more liquidity into
the system, that should be a tailwind.
We then look at the policy changes and
what that means for the consumer that
will also inject additional liquidity.
And then I think finally there is, we
don't like to talk about this anymore,
but the whole tariff thing. At first it
was tariff overload, then it was like
we're ignoring it. And now I think it's
just not as bad as everyone feared and
the direction of travel is actually
better than what people had expected. So
what does that mean ultimately for the
consumer and for corporate earnings is
actually net positive? This points to a
really optimistic view for equities.
Does it point to an optimistic view for
bonds given that there is an
inflationary tilt here? There's a
question can you have your cake and eat
it too with more stimulus on fiscal,
more stimulus on monetary without
commensurate inflation picking up.
>> I think that's the tricky part. So when
we look at what we we hear this all the
time that many people are saying that
this is the moment now to extend
duration. I don't think that's the case
and certainly our team at city wealth is
saying you know in terms of duration I
think we need to be relatively
conservative. So you're not hanging out
super short end of the curve. You're
hanging out somewhere between like 5 to
6 years but I think anyone who's
extending duration you see that
volatility on the 10-year and it's very
hard to make that argument that that's
where you're really going to to place
capital. That being said, I do think on
the short end of the curve, this is
something that's going to again be a
tailwind for equities because as we see
that short end come down and you have
the $8 trillion of cash on the sidelines
that's going to start to be put to work
in the market and look for places to
invest.
>> Are we about to turn the page in this AI
story? We're about to start another
chapter. I think of Sam Alton calling
for this code red at OpenAI. I think of
the Oracle results that we got
yesterday. Do do you sense that the way
that we are telling the story or telling
ourselves the story of of AI is changing
as a result of what we've learned here
in recent days?
>> So I think the AI story and we're going
to talk let's talk bubble talk a little
bit here but I think the AI story you
have to separate two different things.
So one is going to be like is there a
bubble in terms of valuations in the
public markets and two the capex story
those are like two different things in
my mind. So you could say, okay, within
public markets, we're priced to
perfection and you need to continuously
deliver when it comes to earnings. And
some of those companies are funding the
capex via free cash flow generation.
Others, as we've seen, through debt or
maybe not, there's not clarity in terms
of how they're funding this capex. So
when we look at the capex, I think then
you're saying, okay, we've had about 450
billion this year. It's expected to rise
another hundred billion. There's
estimates that by 2030, it's going to
be5 trillion. And that capital is going
somewhere. It's not just they're
spending this blindly. So then you're
starting to look at who are the
beneficiaries of that capital. And I
think when people are talking about the
broadening out story, that's exactly
what they're talking about.
>> So we talk so much about all that
buffets AI and I think that's by
necessity. We're in an early stage of
this talking about the capex and and the
data centers and and the like
>> and the comparison to railroads and how
radical this reform is going to be. That
gets me to my next point, which is it
does seem like we have to at some point
reckon with the changes to productivity
that are going to result presumably from
this. And I think yesterday at that Fed
press conference, you had some that that
began to kind of creep into the
conversation a little bit more. I'm
wondering as you look ahead to 2026, is
there going to be a real reckoning or
the necessity for a real reckoning about
sort of what this is going to mean in
real terms, not the building of AI, but
what it's going to mean for for the
economy more broadly?
>> Well, I think those were the two things
that Chair Pal said that I think were
the most interesting. One is the labor
market. Like, are we going to see
revisions to those numbers? and we're
actually going to see negative numbers.
That really stuck with me and his focus
on productivity as a positive. So, this
is something that's going to drive
growth, but what does that mean in terms
of the labor market? And I think that's
been a conflict that we've been
discussing for quite some time where
could you have a situation where you're
seeing the stock market continue to
grind higher? You're going to see gains
in terms of productivity, not just for
the the pure AI plays, but throughout
the rest of of of the market. But what
does that ultimately mean in terms of
jobs and job creation? probably not a
lot,
>> which is, I guess, the ultimate question
with this rotation and the
outperformance we're seeing this morning
and over the past few weeks of the
Russell 2000. Can you get a jobless
recovery? Can you get a jobless
acceleration in the consumer? How much
do you need to see a participation in
some of the data that hopefully we'll
get at some point uh surrounding the
labor market?
>> And I think bringing this back to this
broadening out story, I think when
people are talking about it, they're not
talking about the same things. So when
we say we're not a buyer of the
broadening out story, it's we're not
going bottom fishing within the equity
market looking at nonprofitable,
unprofitable companies or going Russell
2000, you can play a broadening out with
actually profitable companies that are
going to manage their expense base that
are going to gain from from this
productivity. Um going down in terms of
everything's going to benefit in this
market. I think that's a very tricky
place to be positioned going into next
year. One thing that you do really well
is you work with clients who are facing
real existential challenges and changes
in their fields and you came out with
this 2026 Hild debrand client advisory
report that looks at the legal industry
in particular.
>> Can you just talk about some of what you
found but also how it pairs with this
idea of some of these changes in
productivity, these changes in the
structure of work going forward? So
we've been working with law firms now
going on 56 years. So, so City covers
over 800 law firms, 40,000 uh attorneys
we work with, and this is the 18th year
that we we've partnered with Hildbrand
in this client advisory piece. And some
of the key insights, there's a lot of
corlaries to what we're seeing in public
markets as well. So, you're seeing
really strong revenue growth, but what
are you also seeing? Modest increases in
demand. And so, this concept of pricing
power stealing share becomes really
important. AI is a must. So you had
firms saying AI is not going to disrupt
our industry a couple years ago to now
it's this is a fundamental where we need
to spend money. I think an interesting
thing bringing this to the labor market
is what used to be a pyramid type labor
force within the legal industry is now
becoming a cylinder because how can you
charge for associate level work when we
know Genai can do that summarization
when we know so you're going to see some
disruption in terms of how you bill how
you hire and I think this is going to be
something every advisory business is
going to need to grapple with how do you
train the next generation of adviserss
when you acknowledge that yes, maybe you
were losing money on that part of your
workforce always, but now it's even more
prevalent.
>> Let's linger on this because I imagine
there's a lot of anxiety among three L's
who are wondering about their job
prospects going forward, but it sounds
like from what you're saying, we are
looking at potentially a radical
reinvisioning of what corporate law life
is going to be and what's that going to
mean for that specific employment
picture.
>> Absolutely. And I think there's also I I
think from an employment standpoint, we
need to start getting creative. So if
you're saying, okay, the return on that
investment, the return on human capital
is not going to be what I need it to be,
maybe it needs to pivot to something
where it's actually more of like think
of it like a graduate program, like a
master's degree, where your
compensation, yeah, your compensation
could change, but maybe you're on the
back end of that, you have a commitment
to that firm. So I remember when I did
my MBA, that's exactly how it worked.
Like you were paid less, but then you
had a commitment to that firm in terms
of repaying that. I think we're going to
start to see similar dynamics because
you need to train the next generation.
Otherwise, you're not going to be the
firm that says, "Okay, I'm going to
train the next generation." And then
someone else is going to go and poach
this talent once they become, you know,
a full-fledged adviser. So, this is not
something unique to the law industry.
We're going to see this in investment
banking in other areas as well. And I
think it all points to large versus
small. If we kind of pull this thread a
little bit more, large versus small,
what do we think we're going to see?
Because of the cost of AI, because of
the cost of all of these services that
you need, you consume. If you're a
smaller firm, that's much harder to do
versus a larger firm, which points to
M&A consolidation,
>> which we have continued to see
throughout the year, and we've continued
to see the likes of Walmart pull away
from some of the smaller retailers.
Christa Bitterly of City, you're going
to be sticking with us, I'm very pleased
to say. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. And here
is your blooper brief with the Anna
Jihara.
>> Hi Lisa. Nobel Peace Prize winner Maria
Corina Machado is planning to return to
Venezuela and go back into hiding.
Machado made her way to Oslo early this
morning hours after her daughter
accepted her prize on her behalf. She
declined to comment on her journey,
saying it would put her helpers at risk,
but saying she would one day be able to
tell the story of her experience.
Meanwhile, JetBlue opening its first
ever airport lounge next week. The new
space called Blue House at New York's
JFK airport will span two floors serving
primarily premium customers and the
airlines credit card members. Lisa Aro
Lisa will be sitting down with Jeep CEO
Joanna Gerity in the new lounge next
Tuesday at 11:00 a.m. And YouTube TV
planning to roll out a major expansion
next year. The Alphabet owned platform
expecting to launch over 10 new genres
specific subscription plans in early
2026. This includes a dedicated sports
plan featuring networks like ESPN and
FS1 with NFL Sunday Ticket as an
optional add-on. The company has yet to
release a pricing plan for the new
subscriptions. That's your brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Bundling, unbundling,
bundling, unbundling. I feel like
>> cable all over again.
>> I mean, exactly right. Netflix maybe
not. I don't know. Now, is it YouTube or
is it uh come competing with the likes
of Warner Brothers? Up next, the morning
calls. Plus, former Dallas Fed President
Robert Kaplan on the growing descent
within the central bank. That's next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
The Fed is recognizing that right now
where they have monetary policy, they
are neither pushing down on the economy
in a measurable way and they're not
pushing up on the economy in a
measurable way either. They're kind of
in a stance where they could go in
either direction. That's another way of
the Fed underscoring the bar is really
high for another cut. That was Claudia
Sam of New Century Adviserss after we
did see three descents yesterday, the
most going back to 2019 on the FOMC.
Good morning. Welcome back. What we are
seeing is a little bit of softness on
equity futures down 310 of a percent
because of Oracle dragging down the
postfed high that we saw yesterday.
Little dollar weakness 11715
to going out to the fourth decimal
place. And 10-year yields down about two
basis points building on the rally from
yesterday of 4.13%.
Time now for the morning calls. Oracle
is the name to focus on. First up, JP
Morgan cutting its target on the tech
stock to $230, highlighting the weak uh
third quarter guidance. Meanwhile, Bank
of America lowering its target to $300,
citing an investment curve issue. And
finally, Beimo cutting its target to
$270, calling second quarter revenue
lackluster. All of these kind of
negative calls explaining why the shares
are lower by 13% ahead of the open.
Turning to the Federal Reserve, the
central bank delivering its third
consecutive rate cut and maintaining its
outlook for just one cut coming next
year. Robert Kaplan, the vice chair of
Goldman Sachs and former Dallas Fed
president joins us now for more. Rob,
thank you so much for being here.
>> Good to be here.
>> So, the big story really is dissents and
how much is this going to be a fractured
Fed going into 2026? You think maybe
we're overplaying that?
>> Maybe. I think so. Uh there's a reason
that there that there was a lot of
debate going into the December meeting.
They're now at what I would estimate the
neutral nominal rate. There's some
people on the committee, I might have
been one of them, who would have said if
inflation's running above target and GDP
is going to firm into next year because
of tax benefits, etc., you want to be a
little above neutral. But they made a
decision and that they've gone ahead and
cut. I think from here I I don't think
you're going to see as many descents.
And here's why. I think there's pretty
good consensus that if they're going to
move further from here, you either need
to see a weakening in labor, which I
think is unlikely, or a improvement in
inflation. But I think there's pretty
good consensus now. Uh there's a lot of
debate, and I understand why on whether
they should have cut in December, but
that's that's behind us now. From here,
I think you'll see them be pretty
conventional and I would guess if
there's a descent one here or there,
it'll be episodic. I think they got
pretty good consensus now,
>> even with any new leadership on the
Federal Reserve.
>> Well, so I'm talking between now and
May.
>> Okay, but there's a lot of there's a lot
of daylight. So in May, here will be the
change in May and and so then this is
what will make it a I think this Fed is
going to be reluctant to anticipate
uh disinflationary improvements. Uh
they're going to want to see inflation
improvements before they move again. I
think in May you'll see a new Fed chair
be more inclined to anticipate
improvements in inflation either due to
AI or Chinese manufacturing over
capacity. It depends on who's around the
table. I think some members will be less
inclined to want to anticipate that. But
I think that's the direction of the new
Fed is going to be more inclined to
anticipate inflation improvements. So, I
was struck by a couple of things
yesterday and I I have a more sort of
dovish read on the Fed and I think that
that was what the market was picking up
in the immediate aftermath. Maybe
they're incorrect to do so, but a focus
on downside surprises to the labor
market indicating job losses of 60,000
to the 40,000 gains that we had been
seeing reported. And then this focus on
productivity, the idea that you could
have your cake and eat it too with more
robust GDP without inflation on the flip
side. Why do you think that's not going
to necessarily gain the mainframe of the
Fed and allow them to cut much more
aggressively going into 2026?
>> So the two things that jumped out at me
from the Fed forecast, the summary of
economic projections is the firming in
GDP they see going into next year. So
that tells you if if unemployment is
weaker, it's not going to be cyclical.
It's going to be a structural issue. I
don't think that's the role of the Fed
to deal with structural. Yeah. I people
looking for jobs don't want the jobs
that are open. I think they're they
should be focused more on cyclical.
They're projecting a firming. The other
thing that struck me is their inflation
forecast pretty benign. They they show
an improvement down to the mid twos. So,
um, if if that's the case, that's how
they get room for another cut. Because
if the neutral rate right now is 3 1/2,
3 and 3/4, if inflation improved another
25 basis points, I think they they'll
think neutral's three and a quarter,
three and a half, it all makes sense to
me. I would call this now a more
balanced Fed from here to May. Uh, not
so dovish, more balanced. I think you
need to see movement either again in
jobs or inflation for them to move in
May. That's where you'll see the tilt
again and you'll see new debates about
whether that tilt toward anticipating
inflation whether that's appropriate.
>> Want to ask you about inflation in the
context of tariffs and the Fed chair
yesterday defended that 2%ish target
once again when he was asked about it by
a reporter but he also had this
admission which stood out to me which
was if you took tariffs out of the
picture you're kind of in the low twos.
How are you thinking about the role that
tariffs are having in an inflationary
sense right now? And what did you make
of him saying that? I mean, not not
really equivocating when he said that
words yesterday.
>> So, I'll take give you a slightly
different tilt.
>> Okay.
>> Uh goods up to 2025 have been
disinflating.
>> Goods have not been the inflation
problem in the United States. Services
have been the inflation problem. They're
running in the mid-3s. They're still
running in the mid-3s. tariffs have
temporarily interrupted the goods
disinflation. So, I agree goods won't be
the problem over the horizon, but
services are still sicky. We're very
tight on the labor force. Uh, and so I
think what they're going to be looking
for and what I'll look for is is there
improvement in services or services stay
in the mid3s? And I think the jury's out
on that, particularly in a firming
economy with a very tight labor force.
>> Something J. Pal didn't bite at
yesterday were questions about Fed
independence and personnel took us to
May. Let me take us a little bit beyond
there. There is this kind of popular
misapprehension about what a new Fed
chair is going to be able to do. And I
don't want to intimate that the
president shares that misapprehension
about it, but he's certainly fueling
this notion that he can put somebody in
that job and he or she uh would be able
to take the Fed in a new direction. So
with your confidence in the level of
unonymity so much as there is among
policy makers now and that might
continue what does a Fed chair have to
have or be able to do to herd the cats
keep them in line going forward in May
and as he's talking to all these folks
the Kevin and Mickey yeah all these
folks um what what should he be ask what
should he be trying to identify about
that person's capacity to play that very
important role in running the FOMC
>> so I think there'll likely be three
changes post May and I would say number
one I don't think the goal of the new
Fed share should be to minimize
dissents. It should be to have a a good
process, a good debate to be able to
explain decisions. And if there's more
dissense, it's okay to me. But there are
three tilts you're going to see. One, I
mentioned earlier, they're going to be
more likely, the Fed, new Fed sure is
going to be more likely, I would guess,
to anticipate inflation improvements.
Not everybody around the table is going
to love that, but I would guess he or
she's going to be able to get seven
votes. So, in other words, they'll be
able to make the decision. Second, the
Fed balance sheet. Uh, are is the new
Fed sure going to be more inclined to
want to extend maturities in the
composition of the Fed balance sheet? Go
from a a reverse twist, less short, a
little more long. And I would guess in
the years ahead, the bar for QE may be a
little lower. That's the second. And
then the third thing, regulatory uh
reform is well underway. Mickey Bowman
is driving that. I think a new Fed chair
will will be an enthusiastic partner
that might help speed that along even
further. I think those will be the three
changes you're likely to see. Which just
bleeding over to your current role, how
much do you see right now the risks
building, not necessarily in 2026, but
2027, 2028, when you have financial
institutions that are encouraged to take
risk, you have elevated asset prices as
a result of an easy Fed policy, maybe
not now, but certainly down the line,
which is what's expected. Do you see
that as becoming increasingly a risk to
watch as people talk about bubbles?
Well, so I I personally don't think
we're in a bubble right now. And I think
even on the AI front, the AI capex is a
percentage of GDP based on and the right
now we're talking when we say AI bubble
right now, we're talking about
infrastructure, I think if you look at
the infrastructure spend, uh I I think
based on the percentage of GDP, based on
the cash flow of the companies doing it,
it's pro it's not someday it will get
overdone. It's not overdone yet. And
remember, the big opportunity in AI is
not the infrastructure for the economy.
It's the adoption. And I would argue
we're in the early innings on the
adoption. Uh the adoption that should
help drive, we hope, a half a percentage
point jump in productivity growth as
part of GDP and will drive margin
improvement. I would argue in the first
couple of three innings of it. That's
going to unfold over the next two or
three years. and we're all going to
learn a lot about what use cases work
and which ones don't. And so, uh, I
think I think that's a great
opportunity. I think the next Fed chair
is going to have to there'll be the zeal
to anticipate improvements, but I think
he or she is going to have to be more
it's going to have to be balanced and
apolitical because yes, uh, the markets
are watching, global markets are
watching, and you also don't want a
runup in the long end of the Treasury
curve.
>> Yeah. which we haven't seen actually
since this particular meeting. Robert
Kaplan, wonderful to see you. Let's do
this again. Robert Kaplan, former Dallas
Fed president. Coming up, the latest
jobless report set to cross. Florinichi
of Troll Price joins us as well as of
course Kristen Bitterly. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
If you want outperformance, you can see
it in the Russell 2000 futures higher
now even as the rest of the equity
indices sag. You got 3/10en of a percent
decline in S&P futures. The NASDAQ lower
by half a percent. Russell 2000 eatking
out gains but just. Meanwhile, when you
take a look at the bond space, twos,
tens, and 30s. You do see that bid
continuing to strengthen after
yesterday's rally. Even at the front
end, yes, that has been the biggest
rally point. F 3.53%
rounded up. The tenure also getting a
bid. Jobless claims data just crossing.
Bloomberg's Michael McKe has the
numbers. Mike,
>> well, not just crossing yet. We're a
little bit delayed here, but that
sometimes happens when everybody clicks
on the uh numbers at once. We do have
the trade balance for the month of
September in now. Uh negative 52.8
billion. That's a little down from the
59.6
that was the initial report. Now, this
includes services as well. Uh exports up
3%, imports up only 6/10en of 8%. No
surprises there given uh the tariff
situation. Initial jobless claims are
now in 236,000
last week after a revised 192,000 the
week before. That 192 very low, but that
was the week of Thanksgiving. So there
wasn't a whole lot of people going out
to file their initial claims. uh 236 is
much more in the range that we have been
in on initial claims on a continuing
basis 1,838,000
that is down significantly from
1,937,000
uh the week prior. So it does suggest
that at this point what we're seeing is
the labor market in stasis. Not a lot of
change, not a lot of people uh getting
laid off. Uh we know that hiring's been
weak as well. So, uh, the Fed's whole
argument yesterday was the labor market
needs propping up, but no sign of it
right now.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much. Taking
a look at what the response is in
markets. It is further dollar weakening.
It is an ongoing bleed lower in terms of
the equity indices. Right now, we're
seeing Russell's 2000 futures lower
after being higher earlier. You're
seeing that NASDAQ decline continue. In
the bond space, you are seeing some
justification potentially for that
dovish tilt to the Fed given the fact
that this is a higher jobless claims
number than previously expected and
you're seeing that bid continue
throughout the yield curve. Uh just
really interesting and Kristen bitterly
I'd love your thoughts on this. This is
confusing data. We're looking right now
at data where Java's claims are coming
in. We saw the biggest increase going
back to March 2020 in this latest read
because of what we just saw in the
previous week. How do you understand
this? So, I think like this is exactly
what Cher Pal was talking about
yesterday in terms of like looking for
weakness within the the labor market.
And I think the Fed is definitely
leaning more towards let's make sure
that we're protecting the labor market.
Inflation, we're going to watch that
closely, but the bigger concern is
really making sure that we we have a
grasp on what is happening within the
labor market. I think this is largely in
line. Yes, it's elevated, largely in
line. Um, as you know, one of the things
that we're watching very closely is the
continuing claims. And so this is
something that you know if you are
someone who did lose your job, how hard
is it to find a new job and how is that
going to actually then flow through into
areas like consumption? And so we just
heard that yes, there are some
structural elements when we think
through what does this mean from an AI
perspective and who are the winners and
losers in the employment backdrop. But I
think this is something that right now
there's no cause for concern. It's like
a frozen market. But if you are someone
who's out of that market, it's a really
really challenging place to be in.
>> Yeah. And it's challenging to get a read
on this. Blina Yurichi of Troll Price
joining us now. And Blurina, how do you
get a clear read on the labor market
when the data is messy, the trends are
messy, the structural changes are
unclear?
So I think the story of the US labor
market throughout this year has been one
of low hiring and low firing. And when
you look at the initial jobless claims
data uh today, I think they reinforce
this message. We are not we're seeing
yes of course a little bit of an
increase in initial claims. Uh but if
you take it within the noise of the last
couple of weeks I think you can smooth
out broadly stable initial claims. So
we're not getting big flows of
unemployed workers in the labor market.
But you look at the continuing claims
trend that has been moving higher
steadily throughout the year. And that's
telling you that those workers that uh
came out of the labor market are finding
it harder to uh find a job because uh
the number of vacancies in the economy
and the hiring demand from firms has
slowed down significantly. So it is this
kind of labor market. The message for me
is that the labor market is not
overheated. It's definitely not as tight
as it was in 22 and 23, but it's not
rolling over either. So this concern
that the Fed has about the weakness in
the labor market, I think it's a bit
overdone at the moment. And certainly I
thought Powell's comments yesterday were
extremely dovish with regards to the
pace of the employment growth in the
economy and this idea that we need to
adjust
monthly payroll data down by 60K per
month and that's the true underlying
trend rather than what the BLS is
publishing. I think this is a bit of a
dobbish interpretation of what's
happening in the labor market.
>> Let's stick with that if if we can. Uh
far for me to suggest you do some
psychoanalysis here of the chairman,
what he was thinking in that and as he
thinks about this particular issue, but
I'm I'm curious as we tease this out.
Why you think he's coming to that
conclusion now? What he's buffeting that
on? And then I guess I'd love a gut
check from you just on the density of
the fog that policy makers and
economists are operating in right now.
Yes, we have these figures, but we're
waiting for so many other pieces of and
reports of data that have been missing
because of the the government shutdown.
Um, how much are policy makers fumbling
as a result of that right now.
>> Okay. So, let's start first with uh this
idea that we should revise down the
payroll numbers or not take them at face
value when they're being published by
the BLS. Where is that coming from?
where when we look at the benchmark
revisions for uh US employment data over
the last two three years, it is true
that those revisions have been uh to the
downside. Uh and so I think uh Fed staff
has come to the conclusion that there is
a downward bias in the BLS estimates and
I think we as forecasters and economists
broadly agree with that uh conclusion. I
think the magnitude maybe is up for
debate. it might be actually smaller
than uh 60k. So that's I think this is
where his assertion is coming from and
perhaps staff estimates at the Fed are a
little bit more uh concerned or more
negative on the labor market than
perhaps the private sector forecasters.
And then how much fog is in the data
right now and how do we navigate that? A
ton of it. Of course, not only do we
have this mixed messages from the
economy, we also have delays in the
publication of the data. But I think
it's important to look at the entirety
of it. If we indeed had a labor market
where the US economy has uh had negative
consecutive negative payroll growth
numbers, would we actually see GDP and
consumer spending remain in positive
territory? Would firms invest as much in
capex as they've done over the course of
the first half of the year? And would
the unemployment rate only increase a
little bit? I think the answer to all
those questions would be no. So looking
at the entirety of the economy, it's
softer than it's been in the last few
years, but it's definitely not weak. And
to what we've done on top of this is
that we've eased financial conditions.
We've cut interest rates, balance sheets
of consumers and wealth is looking
better. And then in Q1, we'll get some
tax credits both to the corporate sector
and to the household sector. So all
those things I think should support
growth and the labor market in 2026.
>> Lorenici of Tropic, thank you so much.
And Kristen, just to finish on this idea
of heading into 2026, does yesterday
what you heard from the Fed make you
more bullish and frankly want to take
more risk? I I think it makes me more
bullish in terms of the prospects for
the first half of 2026. So the tailwinds
that that we mentioned of yes, we we got
the the cut, that was almost like relief
just to make sure that that was a no-n
no, but then when we look through the
other tailwinds that have been discussed
all morning on this program in terms of
the stimulus that's going to come into
the economy, the benefit ultimately to
the consumer, the continued capex and
how that's going to drive a broadening
out. So I do think there's an argument
that you're going to see some tailwinds.
I think we do have to keep a very close
eye because this data is foggy. So this
data when it comes to employment is
foggy. We've also seen what happens with
Oracle in terms of the the market saying
if we don't have clarity on how you're
financing, there's going to be a
delineation just like we talk about a
K-shaped economy. I think we're going to
see K-shapes within sectors as well. I
don't think this is something where it's
going to be everything is going to go up
simultaneously. we're going to see some
volatility and just like we have even
with financials this year, you've seen
some big money center banks do very very
well, but the regionals haven't
performed as well. So, I think that's
going to be the challenge going into
2026.
>> Christian Bitterly of City Wealth, you
are wonderful. Thank you so much for
being here. Look forward to the next
time uh that you're on. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your bloomer brief with Yahara
and Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Recapping that data we just
got, US jobless claims ticked up last
week, rising to 236,000,
which came in above expectations of
220,000. That's an increase of 44,000
from the week prior and marks the
biggest jump since 2020. Better news for
continuing claims, which came in around
100,000, less than expectations at 1.84
million. Meanwhile, the United Nations
is no longer providing paper towels and
restrooms at its headquarters. The move
is a result of the UN's funding wos and
is expected to save the organization
$100,000 per year. The US typically
funds 22% of the UN's regular budget,
but has yet to pay the more than $800
million it owes for this year as well as
some aars for previous years. And in
sports, MLB all-star Pete Alonzo is
heading to Baltimore after signing a
5-year, $155 million contract with the
Orioles. The 31-year-old slugger has
spent his entire career with the New
York Mets, where he became the
franchise's all-time home run leader
last season. It's the second day in a
row the Mets lost to star player
following pitcher Edwin Diaz's departure
to the Dodgers. Sorry, Lisa. Bloomberg
briefs. No kidding. I feel the pain in
my household. It's royal. Yra, thank you
so much. Uh David Gura, you will be back
with us tomorrow. Thank you so much for
everything this morning. Right now,
coming up, we've got Oak Tree Capital
Management co-chair Howard Marks raising
concerns about an AI bubble after a memo
that he wrote. I recommend everybody
read it. A really fascinating take on
the moment we're in. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Seeing a market gut check some of the
enthusiasm post Fed meeting yesterday
after Oracle came out throwing some cold
water on some of the risk appetite down
4 ten of a percent on S&P futures the
bit into bonds actually gaining as the
morning grows older after jobless claims
came in just slightly elevated 10-year
yields at 4.13%
turning to the economy Fed chair Jay
Powell saying AI may be at least
partially responsible for the cooling
labor market. But the future remains
uncertain. Howard Marx, co-founder and
co-chairman of Oak Tree Capital Market,
issuing a warning in his latest memo. I
find the resulting outlook for
employment terrifying. I am enormously
concerned about what will happen to the
people whose jobs AI renders unnecessary
or who can't find jobs because of it. At
this moment of transformation, Howard
joins us now after writing a memo that I
really recommend everybody read. It
really was one of the absolute best that
you've ever written. Thank you for being
here with us.
>> So I can stop now.
>> Oh no, please don't. I want to keep
reading your memos. I want to start with
this idea of different types of bubbles
and you talk about there are productive
bubbles and unproductive bubbles. What's
the difference and how does that make it
either something you want to invest in
or not?
>> Well, I think that the the unproductive
bubbles I would describe as financial
fads. Uh portfolio insurance was one,
subprime mortgages was another. uh just
uh you know financial activities that
become fashionable uh zoom into
popularity, get overhyped and then
recede. Uh but then there are
bubbles which are based on technological
progress starting with the steam engine,
the railroad, the radio, the automobile,
uh computers, internet etc. And these
actually push society ahead
uh and change it irreversibly. Uh but in
the process there's a bubble surrounding
their implementation which is overly uh
accelerated and overly financed and goes
to excess and end up destroying a lot of
capital but leave society uh greatly
changed. And I'm sure that AI is in the
latter category in terms of effect on
society. And the question is will the
implementation uh prove to have been
excessive in scope and in in the way
it's financed?
>> Just because something is excessive
doesn't mean that you can't invest in
it. No, but but it it it
you know when when when
every when investors hate everything
and won't touch it with the 10-ft pole,
chances are it's going to be on sale
because nobody has pushed up the price.
In fact, their disinterest has pushed
down the price. But when everybody likes
something, is excited about something,
chances are it may be overhyped and
overpriced. So, you just have to be
careful.
>> So, that's where we are right now. You
said you can invest and you can
participate, but you just have to be
careful.
>> What does being careful look like? Does
it mean focusing more on debt versus
equities? More on equities versus debt?
More on small companies versus big ones?
What does that look like?
>> Well, uh,
what I say in the memo is that it's okay
to lend for activities even if they're
uncertain, but not if they are if the
outcomes are purely conjectural. I mean,
in order to be a smart lender, you have
to have good visibility on the the
extent to which the thing has is likely
to repay interest in principle. Uh if
it's just purely conjectural, uh it's
not you shouldn't be a lender. And in
fact, it's I think the memo says that um
where that's the case, you should
actually if you want to participate, you
should be in the equity. So, at least
you get the upside. The lender has no
upside. you you make a 9% loan, all
you're going to get is 9% no matter how
well the thing does. You certainly
shouldn't do that in in
uh activities that have a high
probability of not paying off at all
because then you have unlimited downside
and limited upside. That's absolutely
the wrong combination.
>> So you think right now in some
circumstances the equity might actually
be a better option than the debt because
of that potential upside?
>> Yes, exactly. Because the point is that
if you if you go into some startup which
has a the poss you know let's say a
small possibility of a of a raging
success
uh you you you know you you wouldn't
lend to it because you have a high
probability of losing all your money and
no probability of participating in the
success. That's a bad trade. So you
always talk about this riskreward
pendulum, the risk and fear, the the
sort of uh fear and greed pendulum right
now. And yesterday we saw Oracle come
out and talk about having to borrow more
money, having to spend more and people
are selling off the shares. Does this
make you feel good? Does this make you
feel like there actually is some
discretion?
>> Well, well, yeah. Well, I think that I I
think that it's it's uh you know,
Buffett says the less prudence with
which others conduct our affairs, the
greater the prudence with which we must
conduct our own affairs. So when other
people are acting imprudently and
mindlessly and carefree, uh we should be
worried. When other people are showing
appropriate concern, that's a positive
sign that the market is applying some
discipline. the greatest some of the
greatest moments that I've seen uh some
of the greatest signals of danger in the
markets have been when people were not
applying any prudence at all like in '
06 for example. Uh so if if people are
reacting harshly to to aggressive
possibly uh risk uh uh indicating
activities, yes, that's that's a healthy
sign. And th this market is is seems
healthier than the than the 2000 market
to me.
>> How concerned are you that we get a
Federal Reserve that's more
accommodative for a variety of reasons
that leads to even more risk-taking?
This idea that not only did the Fed cut
rates, indicated more rate cuts, but
also is adding to its balance sheet in a
way that could potentially prop up
demand.
>> Well, uh uh you know, I was thinking
about this when I was waiting to to see
you today. uh you know uh most of the
people listening to this uh program uh
including me and you uh are interested
in the free markets and we think free
markets should set the prices of things
uh and uh the Fed manipulations are a
form of price controls. you know, they
control the price of money and uh if if
the if the Fed puts money artificially
cheap,
then it induces behavior like
risk-taking. It it it forces people into
riskier activities because the returns
on safe activities are so low. It it uh
tends to reinforce the view that there's
a Fed put that that if there's a
problem, the Fed will solve it and that
contributes to risky behavior. These are
all bad bad things. And you know, I
believe that the Fed should be uh uh
passive uh most of the time and only
come to the rescue if the market is if
the if the economy is s seriously
overheated and tending towards
hyperinflation or seriously um
under active and not creating jobs. U I
don't think that's the case right now. I
don't think there's a and you can see in
the divided uh open market committee
that there's a difference of opinion. Uh
so I don't think that action on the part
of the Fed is compelling right now and
you know um there are people who think
that rates should be a lot lower than
they than they are today. Uh I I just
don't see that the merit in that
>> right now going forward. I remember back
in uh 2015, 2016, 2017 when rates were
incredibly low, you were saying people
just need to lower their expectations
for returns because ultimately you have
to look at the risk-free rate and you
don't want to re reach too much at a
time where people are greedy.
>> Where are we right now in terms of what
types of returns people ought to expect
based on the current uh income rates?
Well, uh the lower base interest rates
are, everything scales off that. So, uh
you know, uh I mean the Fed funds rate
at 3 and a half is below history. It's
these are not high rates. They're only
high relative to the last 15 years, but
this is a low rate.
So, everything scales off that. most
things will give moderate returns in the
debt area.
I think prospective returns are
moderate. Okay. Uh not lush but not
inadequate. Uh the trouble is that the
S&P uh based on its PE ratio relative to
history appears to be priced uh to to
provide
a very low prospective return. uh
historically if you bought at this PE
ratio um uh your return over the next 10
years averaged in the very low single
digits. So I I think we're in a moderate
return scenario. Uh the problem is that
how do you get a high return in a
moderate return scenario? And most
people's uh resort is to take a lot more
risk. And that's something I don't like
to do other than when it's compelling.
>> You had a a personal note, an addendum
at the end and we I led off with that
idea of what artificial intelligence and
machine learning will do to the labor
market. It's something clearly on the
Fed's mind, clearly on investors mind.
You're talking about concerns that there
is going to be cannibalization from
human jobs.
>> How do you see this playing out? How are
you kind of grappling with this when you
look at investments, when you look at
fiscal deficit, when you look at the
backdrop for the financial system?
>> Well, look, Lisa, here I'm not talking
about investing or economics. I'm
talking about society. And it's very
worrying to me. And uh, you know, I've
gotten some very nice response from
people I respect to the memo. And one of
them said he thinks we've seen this in
response to the internet over the last
25 years. Uh
but it has not raised unemployment
because it the internet eliminated white
collar jobs that were replaced by blue
collar jobs like you know people who
pick stuff in warehouses and and and
send it out in e-commerce. Uh so uh job
count is not down but job quality is
down and uh and uh I think that this is
very worrisome and as I said in the uh
addendum
when we lost jobs to automation and
offshoring.
I think that that coincided with the
opiate uh epidemic and uh not only in
amount but also in location
and I think it's a natural consequence
of people sitting around all day and um
even if we if we can find a a way to
replace their income I worry about
purposelessness and you know we we get
so much job
so much from our jobs
other than a paycheck and you can't
replace that stuff. Um, so I I worry for
society.
>> Howard Marks, you are absolutely one of
the best, my favorite to talk to. Howard
Marks of Oakry Capital Management. Thank
you so much for being with us here this
morning. Coming up tomorrow, Peter Shear
of Academy Securities, Pria Misra of JP
Morgan, Lizanne Saunders of Charles
Schwab, and Daryl Kron of Wells Fargo.
This was Bloomberg surveillance. Good
morning.